Which property of an object is identified using the sense of smell? 	1	1
Which type of energy is needed to cut a piece of wood into smaller pieces with a saw? 	2	3
Which material is the best conductor of electricity? 	0	0
What force causes objects to be pulled toward Earth? 	1	1
When a rock is placed in a graduated cylinder containing water, the height of the water will 	2	1
Which energy transformation occurs when a person hits a drum with a drumstick? 	1	3
A magnet and a metal paper clip have the strongest magnetic attraction when the distance between them is 	0	0
A student rubs her hands together on a cold winter day. The heat that warms her hands is produced by 	0	0
Which property of a rubber band will stay the same when it is stretched? 	1	2
Precipitation is most likely to occur when the sky 	3	2
In which state of matter does water have a definite shape and volume? 	2	2
In order to survive, all animals need 	3	3
Which part of a plant takes in water and nutrients from the soil? 	0	0
Which physical change would most likely help an animal survive during the winter? 	1	1
The leaves of a tree change color in the fall. This is an example of a tree 	2	2
One role of a producer in a food chain is to provide 	1	2
Which sequence shows the life cycle of some insects? 	2	3
What is the major source of energy for food chains? 	2	2
Which statement is an example of how humans have changed the natural environment? 	3	2
Some birds fly south in the fall and return in the spring. This is an example of 	0	0
Which statement is an example of an inherited trait in a living thing? 	2	2
Which property of an object allows it to bend? 	0	1
A ball is thrown up into the air. Which force causes the ball to fall to the ground? 	1	1
Which form of energy is produced when a guitar string vibrates? 	1	3
A toy truck rolls over a smooth surface. If the surface is covered with sand, the truck will most likely roll 	1	0
A student rubs his hands together to warm them. His hands get warm due to 	0	0
The Sun is classified as 	3	2
About how long does it take for Earth to make one revolution around the Sun? 	3	3
When a lightbulb is lit, electrical energy is changed into light energy and 	2	2
Which tool would be most useful for observing the details of an insect's wings? 	2	2
As the distance between a magnet and a metal paper clip increases, the force of attraction between them 	1	0
Which behavior will best help a student stay healthy? 	2	2
Which two life processes occur in both plants and humans? 	3	0
A student places soil in a plastic container to make a home for some worms. The student cuts holes in the top of the container because the worms need 	1	1
As children grow, their body height usually 	1	1
Which human response is most likely to occur because the air temperature is 90°F? 	3	3
Plants are producers because they 	0	0
Why do some animals hibernate in the winter? 	1	1
A male puppy inherits traits from 	1	0
Which two environmental changes usually cause certain animals to migrate? 	1	1
