Which unit is used to express the amount of energy in food? 	0	0
Which system produces most of the hormones in the human body? 	2	2
Each body cell of a goldfish contains 94 chromosomes. How many chromosomes are contained in a goldfish sex cell? 	0	1
Which unit is used to express the amount of energy in food? 	0	0
Many cars today are designed to get better gas mileage than those made in the past. This change resulted from a need to 	0	3
A scientist crosses two different varieties of corn to produce a single variety that has traits from both parents. This technique is an example of 	2	2
What is the nutrient source for some fungi? 	0	3
Which event is the best example of competition between species in a pond environment? 	1	1
Grasses, shrubs, and trees are called producers because they make 	1	3
A broken bone heals through the process of 	2	2
Which substance do all living things require to survive? 	1	1
What advantage does a species that reproduces sexually have over a species that reproduces asexually? 	1	0
What are produced in both the male and female reproductive systems in humans? 	0	3
In which type of rock is the fossil imprint of a fern leaf most likely to be found? 	2	2
Studies of earthquake waves have helped scientists determine the 	0	0
An object accelerates at 3 meters per second² when a 10-newton 	0	2
Which statement would most likely be included in a news report about an approaching hurricane? 	2	2
The surface of Earth is covered mostly by 	3	3
A sudden change in the weather at a certain location is most likely caused by 	2	0
Which process is an example of a physical change? 	2	2
Which statement best describes the energy changes that occur while a child is riding on a sled down a steep, snow-covered hill? 	0	1
All matter is made up of 	1	1
The gravitational force between the Moon and Earth depends on 	0	2
A student examined a rock sample and described it as having particles of various colors that were 1 millimeter to 12 millimeters in size. The student was making 	2	3
A student fails to eat a balanced diet over a period of time. This lack of a balanced diet can lead to 	3	3
Which human organ system eliminates liquid and gaseous wastes from the body? 	2	2
Which human organ system produces hormones to regulate growth, development, and reproduction? 	3	3
What are genes composed of? 	1	1
An organism is born with a genetic abnormality not present in any of its ancestors. This abnormality is most likely the result of 	2	2
When the environment changes more quickly than a species can adapt, the species may become 	0	0
When do organs and organ systems begin to develop in humans? 	0	1
Some one-celled organisms can reproduce by the process of 	3	3
Which structure is found in a plant cell but not in an animal cell? 	1	0
The Moon’s surface is visible to an observer on Earth because the Moon 	0	0
A full Moon is observed in Buffalo, New York, on June 1. Approximately when will the next full Moon be observed in Buffalo? 	1	2
Which physical property is used to identify a mineral based on its resistance to being scratched? 	0	0
A student is trying to dissolve 20 grams of sugar in a beaker containing 250 milliliters of water at room temperature. What can the student do to make the sugar dissolve faster in the water? 	3	2
Compared to the particles in a hardened lava sample, the particles in a liquid lava sample 	2	2
Which energy source is considered nonrenewable? 	1	1
The force of an object, with a certain mass accelerating at a certain rate, can be determined by using the equation below. force = mass x acceleration Which object would have the greatest force? 	0	1
Which human organ system produces most of the hormones that regulate body functions? 	3	3
In living things, traits are passed on from one generation to the next by the transfer of 	3	3
Which health condition is an infectious disease? 	0	0
A structure that carries a single unit of hereditary information is a 	0	0
Which pair of terms describes the usual location for fertilization and the first stages of development in human reproduction? 	0	3
Which process involves choosing certain organisms to reproduce with one another in order to pass on specific, desirable traits to their offspring? 	0	0
The basic life functions of an organism are carried on by 	0	0
The sum of all chemical reactions that take place within an organism is known as 	1	1
A bright object with a long tail of glowing gases is in orbit around the Sun. This object is most likely 	3	3
The thin layer of rock on Earth's surface is the 	3	3
Under which conditions would a sugar cube dissolve most quickly when placed in a liter of water at room temperature? 	0	2
Rocks are classified as sedimentary, metamorphic, or igneous on the basis of the 	3	1
Which temperature and moisture conditions describe an air mass that originates over the Atlantic Ocean near the equator? 	2	1
Which property of a substance indicates whether the substance is a liquid or a solid at room temperature? 	0	0
Fossil fuels are considered nonrenewable because they 	3	3
If the force used to push a shopping cart increases, the cart’s acceleration will 	1	1
Substances enter any plant or animal cell by passing through which of the following structures? 	1	1
In the design process, a trade-off occurs when a problem is solved but a feature is sacrificed. Which of the following is an example of a trade-off? 	1	0
The Appalachian Mountains, which extend from Canada to Alabama, were much taller in the past than they are today. Which of the following two processes are most responsible for the decrease in the height of the Appalachian Mountains? 	3	0
What is the smallest unit of a chemical compound that still has the properties of that compound? 	1	1
Which of the following statements best describes a result of using interchangeable parts to manufacture automobiles? 	3	3
Which of the following correctly lists the structures in space from smallest to largest? 	2	1
Which of the following planets is always closer to the Sun than it is to Earth? 	0	1
Company X makes 100 custom buses each year. Company Y makes 10,000 of one type of bus each year. Which of the following is the most likely reason a customer would buy a bus from company X instead of company Y? 	3	2
A stone arch bridge relies primarily on which of the following for its load strength? 	1	1
A company is making prototypes for a new computer system. Which of the following statements best describes an advantage of making several different prototypes? 	0	0
Which of the following is the main reason water at the surface of the ocean is warmer than water at the bottom of the ocean? 	1	1
A scientist is performing an experiment to determine the melting point of a new substance. Which action could increase the likelihood of obtaining accurate results? 	2	0
Genes are unable to determine a person’s 	0	1
The Sun heats the atmosphere of Earth unevenly. Which of the following is the most likely result of this uneven heating? 	2	0
Seasons in Alaska are primarily caused by which factor as Earth revolves around the Sun? 	1	0
Which tool, when properly used, would best help a student classify a basket of apples into groups based on mass? 	0	0
Students will perform an experiment to find out how long it takes 2 g of salt to dissolve in 50 mL of water. Which experimental method will provide the most accurate results? 	3	2
Charles Darwin made a number of observations and inferences during his travels. He studied island finches during a long period of time. Which statement is an inference? 	2	3
As stream velocity decreases, which factor will likely increase? 	1	1
Which procedure correctly describes materials combining? 	0	0
How do the circulatory system and the respiratory system depend on one another? 	0	0
Which method should be used to determine the type of popcorn that produces the greatest number of popped kernels? 	1	1
Which of the following is most likely to disrupt the natural balance in an ecosystem? 	0	0
The presence of fossil organisms in rocks can provide information about the environment at the time the sediments were deposited because 	0	3
When rain falls on the land, some of it is absorbed by surface sediment. How porous the surface sediments are controls how much water is absorbed. Which of the following will most likely result in an area where surface sediment is NOT porous? 	0	0
Which of the following is true regarding the properties of an air mass? 	1	1
Rocks that contain fragments of bones, shells, and plant remains are most likely 	2	2
An experiment is being conducted to determine the air quality inside a building. In order to come to a conclusion, scientists must gather data. Which of the following would be an excellent source of data from which to draw a conclusion? 	3	3
When mining for coal, a mining company removes the plants and layers of soil and rock above the coal deposit, and takes the coal. When the operation is complete, the mining company returns soil and rock, covers it with a layer of topsoil, and plants trees and grass. The trees and grass help to 	1	3
When soil becomes saturated during rainfall, excess water begins to collect on the surface. Downslope movement of this excess water to rivers, lakes, and streams is called 	0	0
A student is investigating how light behaves when it strikes different surfaces. She has a frosted window glass pane, a clear window glass pane, a mirror, and a piece of cardboard. Which of these objects will scatter the most light? 	2	3
The depth of Lake Superior can be measured by sending sound waves to the bottom and measuring the period of time it takes for the reflected sound waves to return to the surface. Which of the following would indicate a shallow depth? 	3	2
Which of the following is an example of how insects are beneficial to humans? 	2	2
The Earth's Moon is 	3	1
Which of the following best explains why the pressure inside a high-flying airplane must be controlled? 	0	1
What property of water is most important for living organisms? 	3	3
To keep a heavy box sliding across a carpeted floor at constant speed, a person must continually exert a force on the box. This force is used primarily to overcome which of the following forces? 	2	2
Which of the following is designed to convert energy into mechanical work? 	0	0
Question 151 refers to Additional Information [2] Which of the following living things in the pond system uses the energy from sunlight to make its own food? 	2	2
Question 153 refers to Additional Information [2] If air pollution causes the rain that falls on this pond to become much more acidic, after two years how will this acidity affect the living things in this pond? 	3	2
Household appliances convert electricity into one or more different forms of energy. An electric fan can best be described as converting electricity into 	1	2
A person produces two sound waves with a flute, one immediately after the other. Both sound waves have the same pitch, but the second one is louder. Which of the following properties is greater for the second sound wave? 	0	1
A human CANNOT survive the loss of which of the following? 	2	1
An unusual type of fossil clam is found in rock layers high in the Swiss Alps. The same type of fossil clam is also found in the Rocky Mountains of North America. From this, scientists conclude that 	3	3
What two gases make up most of the Earth's atmosphere? 	3	3
Which is an example of water condensing? 	3	3
Why does the leaf of a plant look green? 	1	1
How do most fish get the oxygen they need to survive? 	1	1
Which layer of Earth is divided into plates? 	1	1
Water evaporates and falls back to Earth as rain or snow. What is the primary energy source that drives this cycle? 	1	1
What atoms combine to make up a molecule of water? 	2	2
Which characteristic is shared by all cells? 	1	0
A force of 5 N is required to increase the speed of a box from a rate of 1.0 m/s to 3.0 m/s within 5 s along a level surface. What change would most likely require additional force to produce the same results? 	1	1
An object composed mainly of ice is orbiting the Sun in an elliptical path. This object is most likely 	3	3
Copper (Cu) reacts with oxygen 	4	0
How much time is required for a bicycle to travel a distance of 100 m at an average speed of 2 m/s? 	2	1
In a comparison of metals to nonmetals, metals tend to have 	2	3
What characteristic of carbon 	4	2
Which class of elements best conducts electricity? 	0	0
Which of the following compounds is most likely to be part of living organisms? 	3	0
Which of the following is found farthest from the center of an atom? 	0	3
Which of the following sets contains only objects that shine as a result of reflected light? 	3	0
A cook touches a hot stove and quickly moves his hand away. What are the two primary body systems that work together to produce this response? 	2	2
The growth of which of the following usually occurs first in primary succession on a bare rock? 	0	0
What eventually happens to a species when the environment changes and the organisms do not adapt? 	2	2
Which sequence represents the correct levels of organization for multicellular organisms? 	0	0
In which part of a plant cell does photosynthesis occur? 	3	1
A dialysis machine can be used to remove waste from a patient’s blood. Which human body system works in a similar way? 	1	1
Which gas is transported by the circulatory system in humans and is used by cells during respiration to release energy stored in food? 	3	3
A cell’s chromosomes contain 	0	0
Which process is a cause of variation in a species? 	2	2
Which pathway do most nutrients take after a person takes a bite of food? 	0	0
Abnormal cell division may result in 	3	3
Herbivores obtain most of their energy by 	1	1
A biological community is made up of all the 	0	0
If an ecosystem’s balance is disturbed by a volcanic eruption, what will most likely occur? 	0	1
Which geologic process occurs when the acid in precipitation dissolves certain types of rock? 	2	2
Scientists have discovered fossils of the same organisms in many different parts of the world. These fossils provide evidence that 	0	0
Because copper is a metal, it is 	3	3
A student placed a rock in a graduated cylinder containing water, causing the water level in the cylinder to increase by 20 mL. This increase represents the rock's 	1	1
