[["strikes, the muscles surrounding the poison glands contract, squeezing the venom out and into the victim.  Once bitten, the rattlesnake will let go, allowing the prey to withdraw and run away if it can.  Unfortunately, it only takes a matter of minutes for the venom to kick in, but the rattlesnake won't consume the animal until it is officially dead. Next, the rattlesnake will rapidly track down its prey by using a flickering motion of its tongue to detect the prey's scent.  By flicking the tongue in and out of the oral cavity, it can absorb molecules and chemicals in the air and associate them with animals present in the area, especially its prey. Besides having two nostrils for smell, timber rattlesnakes also possess a special sensory organ called Jacobson's organ that also aids in the detection of prey sources.  It is located on the roof of the mouth and works in sync with the tongue by filtering and identifying the molecules the tongue picks up from the air and ground.  Now the rattlesnake can finally consume its prey.  Unlike many other animals, which typically grind and chew their food with teeth as a a way of pre-digesting their food, C. horridus simply swallows its entire prey whole.  It doesn't leave a single crumb on its plate!  The rattlesnake will then retreat to a sunny basking site in order to raise its body temperature for proper digestion.  The optimal temperature for digestion is generally around 80-85 degrees Fahrenheit for maximum efficient digestion.         ",0.8956802487373352],["Crocodiles are ambush hunters, waiting for fish or land animals to come close, then rushing out to attack. As cold-blooded predators, they have a very slow metabolism, and thu…s can survive long periods without food. Despite their appearance of being slow, crocodiles are top predators in their environment, and various species have been observed attacking and killing sharks. Many large crocodilians swallow stones (called gastroliths or stomach stones) which may act as ballast to balance their body or assist in crushing food, similar to grit in birds. Salt glands are present in the tongues of most crocodylids and they have a pore opening on the surface of the tongue. They appear to be similar to those in marine turtles; they seem to be absent in Alligatoridae. Crocodilians can produce sounds during distress and in aggressive displays. They can also hear well and the tympanic membranes are concealed by flat flaps that may be raised or lowered by muscles. Crocodiles eat fish, birds, mammals and occasionally smaller crocodiles. Crocodiles do not have sweat glands and release heat through their mouths. They often sleep with their mouths open and may even pant like a dog. It is reported that when the Nile crocodile has lurked a long time underwater to catch prey, and thus has built up a big oxygen debt, when it has caught and eaten that prey, it closes its right aortic arch and uses its left aortic arch to flush blood loaded with carbon dioxide from its muscles directly to its stomach; the resulting excess acidity in its blood supply makes it much easier for the stomach lining to secrete very much stomach acid to quickly dissolve bulks of swallowed prey flesh and bone.",0.8834416270256042],["Crocodiles are ambush hunters, waiting for fish or land animals to come close, then rushing out to attack. As cold-blooded predators, they have a very slow metabolism, and thu…s can survive long periods without food. Despite their appearance of being slow, crocodiles are top predators in their environment, and various species have been observed attacking and killing sharks. Many large crocodilians swallow stones (called gastroliths or stomach stones) which may act as ballast to balance their body or assist in crushing food, similar to grit in birds. Salt glands are present in the tongues of most crocodylids and they have a pore opening on the surface of the tongue. They appear to be similar to those in marine turtles; they seem to be absent in Alligatoridae. Crocodilians can produce sounds during distress and in aggressive displays. They can also hear well and the tympanic membranes are concealed by flat flaps that may be raised or lowered by muscles. Crocodiles eat fish, birds, mammals and occasionally smaller crocodiles. Crocodiles do not have sweat glands and release heat through their mouths. They often sleep with their mouths open and may even pant like a dog. It is reported that when the Nile crocodile has lurked a long time underwater to catch prey, and thus has built up a big oxygen debt, when it has caught and eaten that prey, it closes its right aortic arch and uses its left aortic arch to flush blood loaded with carbon dioxide from its muscles directly to its stomach; the resulting excess acidity in its blood supply makes it much easier for the stomach lining to secrete very much stomach acid to quickly dissolve bulks of swallowed prey flesh and bone.",0.8834416270256042],["Crocodiles are ambush hunters, waiting for fish or land animals to come close, then rushing out to attack. As cold-blooded predators, they have a very slow metabolism, and thu…s can survive long periods without food. Despite their appearance of being slow, crocodiles are top predators in their environment, and various species have been observed attacking and killing sharks. Many large crocodilians swallow stones (called gastroliths or stomach stones) which may act as ballast to balance their body or assist in crushing food, similar to grit in birds. Salt glands are present in the tongues of most crocodylids and they have a pore opening on the surface of the tongue. They appear to be similar to those in marine turtles; they seem to be absent in Alligatoridae. Crocodilians can produce sounds during distress and in aggressive displays. They can also hear well and the tympanic membranes are concealed by flat flaps that may be raised or lowered by muscles. Crocodiles eat fish, birds, mammals and occasionally smaller crocodiles. Crocodiles do not have sweat glands and release heat through their mouths. They often sleep with their mouths open and may even pant like a dog. It is reported that when the Nile crocodile has lurked a long time underwater to catch prey, and thus has built up a big oxygen debt, when it has caught and eaten that prey, it closes its right aortic arch and uses its left aortic arch to flush blood loaded with carbon dioxide from its muscles directly to its stomach; the resulting excess acidity in its blood supply makes it much easier for the stomach lining to secrete very much stomach acid to quickly dissolve bulks of swallowed prey flesh and bone.",0.8834416270256042],["Crocodiles are ambush hunters, waiting for fish or land animals to come close, then rushing out to attack. As cold-blooded predators, they have a very slow metabolism, and thu…s can survive long periods without food. Despite their appearance of being slow, crocodiles are top predators in their environment, and various species have been observed attacking and killing sharks. Many large crocodilians swallow stones (called gastroliths or stomach stones) which may act as ballast to balance their body or assist in crushing food, similar to grit in birds. Salt glands are present in the tongues of most crocodylids and they have a pore opening on the surface of the tongue. They appear to be similar to those in marine turtles; they seem to be absent in Alligatoridae. Crocodilians can produce sounds during distress and in aggressive displays. They can also hear well and the tympanic membranes are concealed by flat flaps that may be raised or lowered by muscles. Crocodiles eat fish, birds, mammals and occasionally smaller crocodiles. Crocodiles do not have sweat glands and release heat through their mouths. They often sleep with their mouths open and may even pant like a dog. It is reported that when the Nile crocodile has lurked a long time underwater to catch prey, and thus has built up a big oxygen debt, when it has caught and eaten that prey, it closes its right aortic arch and uses its left aortic arch to flush blood loaded with carbon dioxide from its muscles directly to its stomach; the resulting excess acidity in its blood supply makes it much easier for the stomach lining to secrete very much stomach acid to quickly dissolve bulks of swallowed prey flesh and bone.",0.8834416270256042],["Mouth, also called Oral Cavity, or Buccal Cavity, in human anatomy, orifice through which food and air enter the body. The mouth opens to the outside at the lips and empties into the throat at the rear; its boundaries are defined by the lips, cheeks, hard and soft palates, and glottis. It is divided into two sections: the vestibule, the area between the cheeks and the teeth, and the oral cavity proper. The latter section is mostly filled by the tongue , a large muscle firmly anchored to the floor of the mouth by the frenulum linguae. In addition to its primary role in the intake and initial digestion of food, the mouth and its structures are essential in humans to the formation of speech.",0.82329261302948],["Frogs use their sticky, muscular tongue to catch and swallow food. Unlike humans, their tongue is not attached to the back of its mouth. Instead it is attached to the front, enabling the frog to stick its tongue out much further.",0.8188784718513489],["The common blue-tongued skink spends the majority of its day searching the ground for food and basking in the sun. At night it seeks shelter in logs, leaf litter or other ground debris. Although a normally shy and docile animal, when disturbed it will stand its ground and present a formidable appearance. Puffing up its broad, flat body, it can transform itself into a larger, more threatening opponent. Opening its bright, pink mouth and thrusting out a startling blue tongue, it will emit a loud hiss. Although a blue-tongued skink has no well defined teeth, it is capable of a powerful and painful bite, and will tenaciously hang on to its adversary. A blue-tongued skink can make a hasty retreat, and if grabbed from the rear by a predator will shed its tail. The lost portion of the tail will eventually grow back.",0.775454580783844],["The common blue-tongued skink spends the majority of its day searching the ground for food and basking in the sun. At night it seeks shelter in logs, leaf litter or other ground debris. Although a normally shy and docile animal, when disturbed it will stand its ground and present a formidable appearance. Puffing up its broad, flat body, it can transform itself into a larger, more threatening opponent. Opening its bright, pink mouth and thrusting out a startling blue tongue, it will emit a loud hiss. Although a blue-tongued skink has no well defined teeth, it is capable of a powerful and painful bite, and will tenaciously hang on to its adversary. A blue-tongued skink can make a hasty retreat, and if grabbed from the rear by a predator will shed its tail. The lost portion of the tail will eventually grow back.",0.775454580783844],["Its blow hole was shut, its eyes and mouth were open, and the baleen plates (which filter the humpback's food) were hanging out.",0.7674471139907837],["Its blow hole was shut, its eyes and mouth were open, and the baleen plates (which filter the humpback's food) were hanging out.",0.7674471139907837],["25 Annelids – Annelids (phylum Annelida) have: Body segmentation, a subdivision of the body along its length into a series of repeated parts A coelom A complete digestive tract with – Two openings, a mouth and anus – One-way movement of food",0.7431405186653137],["25 Annelids – Annelids (phylum Annelida) have: Body segmentation, a subdivision of the body along its length into a series of repeated parts A coelom A complete digestive tract with – Two openings, a mouth and anus – One-way movement of food",0.7431405186653137],["as happened, we are told in the heathen fable, to the dog which looked askance at the reflection in the water of what it carried in its mouth, but let go the real food, and, opening its mouth wide to swallow the image of it, still hungered.",0.7220968008041382],["as happened, we are told in the heathen fable, to the dog which looked askance at the reflection in the water of what it carried in its mouth, but let go the real food, and, opening its mouth wide to swallow the image of it, still hungered.",0.7220968008041382],["as happened, we are told in the heathen fable, to the dog which looked askance at the reflection in the water of what it carried in its mouth, but let go the real food, and, opening its mouth wide to swallow the image of it, still hungered.",0.7220968008041382],["as happened, we are told in the heathen fable, to the dog which looked askance at the reflection in the water of what it carried in its mouth, but let go the real food, and, opening its mouth wide to swallow the image of it, still hungered.",0.7220968008041382],["As equines grind their food the edges of the teeth become sharp and can damage the tongue or the inside of the cheek. If you find that an animal has difficulty eating, open its mouth by taking out the tongue (see Unit 36) and check the cheek teeth with your finger. You may need a veterinarian to rasp the teeth.",0.7220191955566406],["This bill is fashioned in such a way that using its hinged mandibles and tongue, the sisserou can easily move food around in its mouth.",0.7123091220855713],["Snakes use their forked tongues to smell. Their tongue constantly flicks to pick up airborne particles and odors. Once it detects these aromas, the snake inserts its tongue into two holes on the top of its mouth (Jacobson's organ), where its brain interprets the smells. If the snake detects food and is hungry, it will pursue the animal.",0.7081022262573242],[". For this purpose an extendible tongue attached to the front of the mouth has evolved. The tongue is sticky at its tip and when it is flipped out it adheres to the small prey item which is bodily brought back into the mouth. The tongue helps with swallowing since it produces mucous which lubricates the food before passing it into the gut.",0.702795684337616],["The sea cucumber feeds in a fascinating way. It may position itself in a spot on the ocean floor where a current will bring a steady supply of food (plankton and other organic particles) its way. The tentacles are opened to collect the food. Then, the cucumber sticks each tentacle in its mouth, one at a time, and licks them off. As soon as a tentacle has been licked, the cucumber takes it out of its mouth and holds it out to collect more food while it licks the next tentacle. The sea cucumber will do this for hours at a time. Other kinds of sea cucumbers use their tentacles to sift through sand on the bottom for particles of food, rather than collect plankton from the water.",0.6869913339614868],["Which is the way of the dog, the only animal that will cheerfully and gladly, with leaping body of joy, leave its food uneaten in order to accompany or to serve its human master.",0.6826550960540771]]