[["find three examples of how plants and animals adapt to natural changes in the environment.",1.1254311800003052],["This book is intended to serve as a reference guide and an introductory textbook on thescience and management of issues related to the environment. When we speak of theenvironment, we refer to the living as well as the non-living world around us, including trees,air, soil, water, plants, animals, rivers, oceans, fish, and insects. The environment also includeshuman beings and the creations of human beings – cities, farms, homes, and temples. Ashuman beings, we are inseparable from our environment and cannot exist without the naturalenvironment.Because humans are part of the environment, our activities can greatly change the naturalworld. Usually our activities affect the environment in three ways. First, we take resourcesfrom the natural environment, such as fish, minerals, wood, clean water, and gems. Second,we add things to the environment, such as smoke from fires, plastic bottles, aluminum cans andplastic bags. Third, we replace the natural environment with something else. An example of this is the clearing of a forest and replacing it with a road or houses or factories.When billions of human beings all over the world take things from the environment, add thingsto the environment and replace the natural environment with other things, the natural worldcan be greatly changed. Most natural resources are limited, so taking too much from theenvironment can use up these resources. For example, if we take too many fish from theTonle Sap, there will be fewer fish to breed and fewer fish in the lake in the future. Also,adding too much waste to the environment can have negative effects. In small amounts,waste is not a serious problem because the natural environment can absorb some waste. Butthere is a limit to the amount of waste that the natural environment can accept. If we add toomuch waste to the natural environment, the water, air and land become too dirty to use.Finally, replacing too much of a natural resource with something else can also have negativeeffects. The amount of land available to convert to human use is limited. For example, if aforest is destroyed to create farmland, it can take hundreds of years to regenerate a similarforest.Human activities have always changed the environment. In the past, the effects of theseactions were localized – people’s actions would change a small plot of land or a short length of a stream. Today, however, modern technology makes it possible for people to damage acountry or the entire world very quickly. For example, with modern technology, large forestscan be cleared so rapidly that the weather of the entire planet is changed, resulting in rainfallchanges even in regions that are far from the forest.Because of our capacity to change the natural environment rapidly and on a large scale, it isimportant for us to understand environmental issues and to manage these issues appropriately.This is a challenge because little is known about all effects of human activities and modern",1.109737515449524],["There are particular `stresses' in the natural environment which have shaped human evolution, for example to move from forest to savannah and the ending of the last ice age;",1.0328197479248047],["The destruction of the rainforest illustrates how a single human activity can impose multiple strains on the environment: by contributing to greenhouse emissions when forests are burned down, by reducing a natural \"sink\" for greenhouse gases, and by eliminating plant species which may contain treatments for climate change-related illness.",1.0054689645767212],["An example of this is the clearing of a forest and replacing it with a road or houses or factories.When billions of human beings all over the world take things from the environment, add thingsto the environment and replace the natural environment with other things, the natural worldcan be greatly changed.",0.9942229986190796],["X1011773052-00121-34614</DOCNO> Environment and Society HGA Standards Grade 9-12 ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY Geography Standard 14: How human actions modify the physical environment By the end of the twelfth grade, the student knows and understands: The role of technology in the capacity of the physical environment to accommodate human modification The significance of the global impacts of human modification of the physial environment How to apply appropriate models and information to understand environmental problems Therefore, the student is able to: A. Evaluate the ways in which technology has expanded the human capability to modify the physical environment, as exemplified by being able to Evaluate the limitations of the physical environments capacity to absorb the impacts of human activity (e.g., use the concepts of synergy, feedback loops, carrying capacity, thresholds to examine the effects of such activities as levee construction on a floodplain, logging in an old-growth forest, construction of golf courses in arid areas) Analyze the role of people in decreasing the diversity of flora and fauna in a region (e.g., the impact of acid rain on rivers and forests in southern Ontario, the effects of toxic dumping on ocean ecosystems, the effects of overfishing along the coast of northeastern North America or the Philippine archipelago) Compare the ways in which the students local community modified the local physical environment (e.g., rivers, soils, vegetation, animals, climate) a hundred years ago with the communitys current impact on the same environment, and project future trends based on these local experiences B. Explain the global impacts of human changes in the physical environment, as exemplified by being able to Describe the spatial consequences, deliberate and inadvertent, of human activities that have global implications (e.g., the dispersal of animal and plant species worldwide increases in runoff and sediment, tropical soil degradation, habitat destruction, air pollution, alterations in the hydrologic cycle) Identify and debate the positive and negative aspects of landscape changes in the students local community and region that relate to peoples changing attitudes toward the environment (e.g., pressure to replace farmlands with wetlands in floodplain areas, interest in preserving wilderness areas, support of the concept of historic preservation) Examine the characteristics of major global environmental changes and assess whether the changes are a result of human action, natural causes, or a conmbination of both factors (e.g., increases in world temperatures attributable to major global action, the link between changes in solar emissions and amounts of volcanic dust in the atmosphere attributable to natural causes) C. Develop possible solutions to scenarios of environmental change induced by human modification of the physical environment, as exemplified by being able to Identify possible responses to the changes that take place in a river system as adjacent farmland is fertilized more intensively and as settlement expands into the floodplain Choose examples of human modification of the landscape \nin the nineteenth and twentieth centuries and compare the ways in which the physical environments ability to accommodate such modification has changed (e.g., urban development in the United States, especially in the High Plains, the Southwest, and Northeast;",0.9921149611473083],["3/90 The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service is considering changes which would make a clear statement to the world that abortion kills babies and violates human rights.",0.9864605069160461],["That the physical environment can both accommodate and be endangered by &#9;&#9;human activities Therefore, the student is able to: A. Describe ways in which people depend on the physical environment exemplified by being able to Prepare an illustrated chart to show how the atmosphere, biosphere, lithosphere, and hydrosphere contribute to the student s daily life Make a list of things that people need, want, and obtain from the physical environment (e.g., food, clean air, water, and mineral resources) and identify those obtained from the physical environment in the student s community, region state, and from other countries Write an account comparing how people in the local community and people else where in the state depend on the physical environment B. Identify ways in which humans alter the physical environment, as exemplified by being able to List examples of changes in land use in the local community (e.g., changing from open land to farmland, from one type of farming to another, from farms to houses and stores, from factories and other industrial uses to abandonment) Use maps and graphs to illustrate changes in the physical environment of the local community or region brought about by processes such as urban growth, the development of transportation and agriculture, and the introduction of new species of plants and animals Prepare an illustrated booklet that shows how and why people alter the physical environment (e.g., by creating irrigation projects, clearing the land to make room for houses and shopping centers, planting crops, building roads) C. Assess the impact of human activities on the physical environment, as exemplified by being able to Develop a chart that compares the plants and animal that used to be found in the local community with those now found there and suggest reasons for any changes (e.g.,., changes in climate, air pollution, water pollution, expanding human settlement) Write and account that gives examples of how human activities have increased the ability of the physical environment to support human life in the local community, state, US., and other countries (e.g., use of irrigation and dry-land farming techniques to improve crop yields, reforestation to prevent erosion, flood-control projects to make land habitable) Identify examples in the local community of ways in which the physical environment is stressed by human activities The geographically informed person knows and understands... Geography Standard 15: How physical systems affect human systems By the end of the fourth grade, the student knows and understands : &#9;1.",0.9733448028564453],["\"The Vatican, for example, makes vague statements on being careful about the environment, but there is emphasis on making the natural world useful to human beings.",0.9670205116271973],["#2. Environment is the place of existence for a life form. A deer may live in a forest, and because the forest surrounds the deer, this makes that forest that deer's environment. Environmental science, environmentalism, and ecology are al different things. Environmentalism is a movement in society that is dedicated to defending the Earth's life support systems, to keep them safe for the future, whereas environmental science is a study that covers many fields on how humans interact with both living and nonliving things. Ecology is sort of like this, but the study is looser and more Biology-oriented; it's directed more towards organisms and how they interact with each other and with the environment in which they live, which is typically nonliving. Organisms and species differ in that \"organism\" is an all-encompassing term for a living thing, and species are specific subcategories within being an organism. They have distinctive traits, and, in the event that they have reproductive organs specifically for making more of their species, can produce fertile offspring. These are found in ecosystems: sets of organisms interacting with each other and their nonliving environment, energy is within Ecosystems as well. Sustainability is the ability of a system, be it natural, economical, or cultural, to adapt to changing environments indefinitely. Natural capital is defined as the natural resources and services that keep people and other lifeforms and their economies alive. Resources found in nature (Natural resources) are materials and energy found in nature that have a serviceable or necessary purpose to humans. Natural services are like these, save for that they are functions instead of objects. These services support human life and human economies. Now that we know about natural capital, we can learn about what supports it: solar capital. Solar capital is energy from the sun, basic as it gets. These natural resources, sans the solar one, are being overused by us humans, in a process known as natural capital degradation. What this means for the Earth is that we are using its replenishable resources faster than it can replenish them. Nutrient cycling is a natural service performed by nature, it is the process of recycling chemicals that organisms need from their environments through a series of organisms and back into the environment. This activity is extremely important! Without it, ecosystems would be collapsing all over the place form lack of these necessary chemicals. The golden apples, the grand prize of Sustainability is an environmentally sustainable society. Such a society would justly and equitably meet the needs of its people, both present and future, as well as have the ability to provide those future generations with their basic needs. Finally, natural income is resources, the resources provided by natural capital. They are renewable by nature, and include plants, animals, and soil. ",0.9668213725090027],["This is a dramatic example of how forests naturally change.",0.9650856852531433],["How did this change in the natural environment affect the wheat crop?",0.961178183555603],["desiccation of the Aral Sea and associated dust storms caused by the diversion of water to irrigation projects in Central Asia could be lessened by ending the diversion and finding alternative water sources) Geography Standard 15: How physical systems affect human systems By the end of the twelfth grade, the student knows and understands: How changes in the physical environment can diminish its capacity to support human activity Strategies to respond to constraints placed on human systems by the physical environment How humans perceive and react to natural hazards Therefore, the student is able to: A. Analyze examples of changes in the physical environment that have reduced the capacity of the environment to support human activity, as exemplified by being able to Describe and evaluate the carrying capacity of selected regions to predict the likely consequence of exceeding their environmental limits (e.g., the impact of the economic exploitation of Siberias resources on a fragile sub-Arctic environment) Develop contemporary and historical case studies to serve as examples of the limited ability of physical systems to withstand human pressure or of situations in which the environments quality and ability to support human populations has diminished because of excessive use (e.g., the drought-plagued Sahel, the depleted rain forests of central Africa, the Great Plains Dust Bowl) Develop a model using concepts of synergy, feedback loops, carrying capacity, and thresholds to describe the limits of physical systems in different environments to absorb the impacts of human activities B. Apply the concept of limits to growth to suggest ways to adapt to or overcome the limits imposed on human systems by physical systems, as exemplified by being able to Describe the limits to growth found in physical environments and describe ways in which techonology and human adaptation enable people to expand the capacity of such environments Describe the conditions and locations of soil types (e.g., soils with limited nutrients, high salt contect, shallow depth) that place limits on plant growth and therefore on the expansion of human settlement and suggest alternative uses for areas of those soil types Identify physical environments in which limits to growth are significant (e.g., extremely cold, arid, or humid tropical climates and mountainous and coastal environments), describe the conditions that may threaten humans in these environments (e.g., rises in population that place pressure on marginal areas), and then develop plans to alleviate such stresses C. Explain the ways in which individuals and societies hold varying perceptions of natural hazards in different environments and have different ways of reacting to them, as exemplified by being able to Collect personal and group responses to different natural hazards before, during, and after the event, and summarize the varying perceptions of natural hazards in different regions of the world Conduct interviews to assess peoples attitudes, perceptions, and responses toward natural hazards in the local community and explain patterns that may emerge (e.g., the effects of religious beliefs, socioeconomic status, previous experience, and other factors on perception and responses toward hazards) Evaluate the effectiveness of human attempts to limit damage from natural hazards and explain how people who live in naturally hazardous religions adapt to their environments (e.g., the use of sea walls to protect coastal areas subject to severe storms, the use of earthquake-resistant construction techniques in different regions within the Ring of Fire Geography Standard 16: The changes that occur in the meaning, use, distribution, and importance of resources By the end of the twelfth grade, the student knows and understands: How the spatial distribution of resources affects patterns of human settlement How resource development and use change over time The geographic results of policies and programs for resource use and management Therefore, the student is able to: A. Analyze the relationshiips between the spatial distribution of settlement and resources, as exemplified by being able to Describe how patterns of settlement are associated with the location of resources (e.g., the organization of farming activities around agglomerated settlements in Southeast Asia;",0.9542945623397827],["Unformatted text preview: Sample Lab Exam 1. Diversity labs: (2m) Name one feature that is characteristic of and unique to members of each of the kingdoms represented by organisms A and B. 2. Natural selection: (6m) To farmers, yield - the biomass that can be harvested from a plot of land - is a very important trait of crops. Yield is a multigene trait, but can be improved by continuous selection in many crop plants. Table A shows corn yield data (in tonnes/ha) from an experimental plot. a. Calculate the selection differential for a plant breeder who selects plants yielding 15 or more tonnes/ha. b. Explain why the plants artificially selected for increased reproductive capacity will not necessarily show increased survival ability. 3. Natural selection: (6m) The lobster is a well-known ocean dwelling crustacean which is especially popular in fine seafood restaurants. The carapace length of a lobster at reproduction (a measure of body size) is determined solely by environmental conditions, and ranges from 4 to 12 cm. The minimum carapace length a lobster must have to be captured by a lobster fisher (and end up on your dinner plate) is 9 cm. Figure A shows the relationship between carapace length and number of eggs. Given the above information: a. What is the optimum carapace length at reproduction for a female lobster? Briefly explain. b. Would you expect natural selection to act on carapace length in lobsters? Why or why not? c. Assume that you took a sample of lobster larvae from the population before humans ever thought of eating them, grew them to maturity and measured their carapace length. After four decades of intensive fishing, you repeated the exercise. Would you expect the second sample to show an increase, a decrease or no change in mean carapace length? Explain your answer. 4. Life divides and conquers the land: (7m) Examine the fungus Rhizopus. a. Draw and label three fungal structures visible on this fungus. b. Identify the ploidy of each structure. c. Clearly indicate any sexual and/or reproductive structures seen on this fungus, by labelling such structures as S (sexual), R (reproductive) or SR (both). 5. Genes and inheritance: The card contains a family tree showing the inheritance of an inherited skin disorder. This disorder is affected by a single gene, with two alleles showing a simple dominant-recessive relationship. The woman indicated with an asterisk(*) marries a male affected with this disorder. (1m) a. Which allele is dominant? (1m) b. What is the woman's genotype? (3m) c. What is the chance that the first child born to this couple will be affected? Show how you derived your answer. 6. Life divides and conquers the land: Observe the specimen, figure and slide of Psilotum nudum, the whisk fern. (1m) a. Name one structural adaptation for terrestrial life present in this plant. (1m) b. Name one characteristic of this plant that restricts it to periodically moist environments. (1m) c. Name one feature that this plant is thought to share with the first vascular plants. (1m) d. Name one feature that suggests that this plant is a secondarily reduced fern. 7. Earth comes alive &amp; Genes and inheritance: (5m) Gregor Mendel performed his genetic experiments on peas. He might have obtained different results if he had studied another organism. a. State each of Mendel's Laws of Inheritance. b. Clearly state why each law would be violated in bacterial reproduction. 8. Design of organisms: (5m) Consider the two femurs at this station. a. Determine the k value for each femur. In marrow-filled mammalian long bones, a bone of a given strength with k = 0.63 should have a minimum mass per unit length. b. Femur B has a k value very different from 0.63. Explain why natural selection might have favored such a k value in this animal. 9. Earth comes alive: (3m) Living protists show tremendous diversity of cellular structure. Almost all protists are aerobic, with respiration taking place within mitochondria, but a few unusual protists lack mitochondria. A number of groups of protists are photosynthetic, with photosynthesis taking place within chloroplasts. All photosynthetic protists contain mitochondria. Chloroplasts and mitochondria are thought to have arisen by an endosymbiotic association of originally freeliving cells. Based on the information given above, suggest a likely evolutionary sequence for the endosymbiotic associations leading to a modern photosynthetic protist. 10. Life divides and conquers the land: Consider plants A, B, C and D and Figure E, showing a phylogenetic tree for the Kingdom Plantae. (2m) a. Fill in spaces 1, 2, 3 and 4 at the top of this phylogenetic tree with the names or letters of plants A, B, C and D. (2m) b. i. Name a possible ancestral group to all four plants, shown as space 5 in Figure E. ii. Give one piece of evidence supporting this group as ancestral to plants. (3m) c. Name the important features, labelled as 6, 7 and 8 on the phylogenetic tree, that developed in the evolution of these organisms and allowed for adaptive radiations of these groups. (1m) d. What is the ploidy of plants A, B, C and D? 11. Genes and inheritance: The card contains a family tree showing the inheritance of curly tails in dogs. In this imaginary example, tail form in dogs is determined by a single gene, with two alleles (curly and straight) showing a simple dominant-recessive relationship. (1m) a. Which allele is dominant? (1m) b. What is the genotype of the dog indicated with an asterisk(*)? (3m) c. The dog indicated with an asterisk(*) is mated to a curly-tailed dog. What phenotypes would you expect to see in the resulting litter, and in what ratio? Show how you derived your answer. 12. Earth comes alive: Early in the history of life on earth, photosynthesis evolved in cells similar to modern cyanobacteria. O2 is produced as a byproduct of this process. (2m) a. Briefly explain how O2 is formed in photosynthesis. The production and accumulation of O2 dramatically transformed the earth and offered new dangers and opportunities to organisms. (1m) b. Briefly explain why O2 was dangerous to organisms on the early earth. (1m) c. How did the availability of O2 lead to an increase in the energy available to living organisms? 13. Genes and inheritance: (2m) a. Name two events during meiosis that lead to variability in the products of meiosis. (2m) b. List any gametes that could be produced by the meiotic division of cell with the genotype AABBccDD. 14. Life divides and conquers the land: (4m) Suppose that you are walking through the forest with a friend and you find Plants C and D on the forest floor. You point them out and say &quot;These belong to the same species.&quot; Your friend replies &quot;I know enough about biology to know that members of the same species should look more similar than these two.&quot; How would you explain your statement to your friend? 15. Design of organisms: (3m) Explain, using the principles of scaling, why an ant can carry objects heavier than itself while an African elephant cannot. 16. Natural selection: (5m) Ten nuts are on display at this station. Of these ten nuts, only the three marked with a white &quot;X&quot; later successfully germinated. Calculate the selection differential on nut weight from this episode of selection. Show your calculations. 17. Earth comes alive: (3m) Cyanobacteria - formerly called blue-green algae - are photosynthetic members of the Domain Bacteria. a. Why are cyanobacteria classified as members of the Domain Bacteria? b. What is the proposed role of ancestral cyanobacteria in the evolutionary history of plants? 18. Design of organisms: (3m) In frogs, venous (low O2) and arterial (high O2) blood mix somewhat in the heart, as shown in Figure B. Why is this design feature (blood mixing in the heart) poor in terms of oxygenation efficiency at the lungs? 19. Design of organisms &amp; Legacy of the past: (5m) In vertebrate evolution, there has been a reduction in the number of aortic arches - large arteries carrying blood from the heart to the body tissues - in the evolutionary lines leading to birds and mammals. In birds, the aorta loops up and travels down the right side of the body. In mammals, it's on the left. a. On the phylogenetic tree, place birds (B), mammals (M) and some common ancestor (A) which had multiple aortic arches. b. With an arrow or arrows, indicate where the modification from multiple arches to one arch occurred. 20. Forest walk (Life divides and conquers the land): (2m) a. A new bacterial species, Liveson salmonberrius, has been identified. This previously undescribed species infects salmonberry flowers and can rapidly devastate salmonberry patches. What changes might the arrival of Liveson salmonberrius select for in salmonberry's relative energy allocation to flowers and runners? Explain your answer. b. A forest area is clearcut to make way for new construction. Financing of the new construction falls through, and the now naked land is left that way. (2m) i. Name one plant species (other than red alder) that you might expect to be an early pioneer in the re-growth on this land. Give one reason why this plant is a successful pioneer species. (1m) ii. Name the term that ecologists use to describe the change that would be expected over time as the forest community re-grows. (4m) c. Name one organism at each of four trophic levels. Wherever possible, use organisms that you saw on your forest work....",0.9448851346969604],["Unformatted text preview: BISC102 practice lab exam 1. Diversity labs: (2m) Name one feature that is characteristic of and unique to members of each of the kingdoms represented by organisms A and B. 2. Natural selection: (6m) To farmers, yield - the biomass that can be harvested from a plot of land - is a very important trait of crops. Yield is a multigene trait, but can be improved by continuous selection in many crop plants. Table A shows corn yield data (in tonnes/ha) from an experimental plot. a. Calculate the selection differential for a plant breeder who selects plants yielding 15 or more tonnes/ha. b. Explain why the plants artificially selected for increased reproductive capacity will not necessarily show increased survival ability. 3. Natural selection: (6m) The lobster is a well-known ocean dwelling crustacean which is especially popular in fine seafood restaurants. The carapace length of a lobster at reproduction (a measure of body size) is determined solely by environmental conditions, and ranges from 4 to 12 cm. The minimum carapace length a lobster must have to be captured by a lobster fisher (and end up on your dinner plate) is 9 cm. Figure A shows the relationship between carapace length and number of eggs. Given the above information: a. What is the optimum carapace length at reproduction for a female lobster? Briefly explain. b. Would you expect natural selection to act on carapace length in lobsters? Why or why not? c. Assume that you took a sample of lobster larvae from the population before humans ever thought of eating them, grew them to maturity and measured their carapace length. After four decades of intensive fishing, you repeated the exercise. Would you expect the second sample to show an increase, a decrease or no change in mean carapace length? Explain your answer. 4. Life divides and conquers the land: (7m) Examine the fungus Rhizopus. a. Draw and label three fungal structures visible on this fungus. b. Identify the ploidy of each structure. c. Clearly indicate any sexual and/or reproductive structures seen on this fungus, by labelling such structures as S (sexual), R (reproductive) or SR (both). 5. Genes and inheritance: The card contains a family tree showing the inheritance of an inherited skin disorder. This disorder is affected by a single gene, with two alleles showing a simple dominant-recessive relationship. The woman indicated with an asterisk(*) marries a male affected with this disorder. (1m) a. Which allele is dominant? (1m) b. What is the woman's genotype? (3m) c. What is the chance that the first child born to this couple will be affected? Show how you derived your answer. 6. Life divides and conquers the land: Observe the specimen, figure and slide of Psilotum nudum, the whisk fern. (1m) a. Name one structural adaptation for terrestrial life present in this plant. (1m) b. Name one characteristic of this plant that restricts it to periodically moist environments. (1m) c. Name one feature that this plant is thought to share with the first vascular plants. (1m) d. Name one feature that suggests that this plant is a secondarily reduced fern. 7. Earth comes alive &amp; Genes and inheritance: (5m) Gregor Mendel performed his genetic experiments on peas. He might have obtained different results if he had studied another organism. a. State each of Mendel's Laws of Inheritance. b. Clearly state why each law would be violated in bacterial reproduction. 8. Design of organisms: (5m) Consider the two femurs at this station. a. Determine the k value for each femur. In marrow-filled mammalian long bones, a bone of a given strength with k = 0.63 should have a minimum mass per unit length. b. Femur B has a k value very different from 0.63. Explain why natural selection might have favored such a k value in this animal. 9. Earth comes alive: (3m) Living protists show tremendous diversity of cellular structure. Almost all protists are aerobic, with respiration taking place within mitochondria, but a few unusual protists lack mitochondria. A number of groups of protists are photosynthetic, with photosynthesis taking place within chloroplasts. All photosynthetic protists contain mitochondria. Chloroplasts and mitochondria are thought to have arisen by an endosymbiotic association of originally freeliving cells. Based on the information given above, suggest a likely evolutionary sequence for the endosymbiotic associations leading to a modern photosynthetic protist. 10. Life divides and conquers the land: Consider plants A, B, C and D and Figure E, showing a phylogenetic tree for the Kingdom Plantae. (2m) a. Fill in spaces 1, 2, 3 and 4 at the top of this phylogenetic tree with the names or letters of plants A, B, C and D. (2m) b. i. Name a possible ancestral group to all four plants, shown as space 5 in Figure E. ii. Give one piece of evidence supporting this group as ancestral to plants. (3m) c. Name the important features, labelled as 6, 7 and 8 on the phylogenetic tree, that developed in the evolution of these organisms and allowed for adaptive radiations of these groups. (1m) d. What is the ploidy of plants A, B, C and D? 11. Genes and inheritance: The card contains a family tree showing the inheritance of curly tails in dogs. In this imaginary example, tail form in dogs is determined by a single gene, with two alleles (curly and straight) showing a simple dominant-recessive relationship. (1m) a. Which allele is dominant? (1m) b. What is the genotype of the dog indicated with an asterisk(*)? (3m) c. The dog indicated with an asterisk(*) is mated to a curly-tailed dog. What phenotypes would you expect to see in the resulting litter, and in what ratio? Show how you derived your answer. 12. Earth comes alive: Early in the history of life on earth, photosynthesis evolved in cells similar to modern cyanobacteria. O2 is produced as a byproduct of this process. (2m) a. Briefly explain how O2 is formed in photosynthesis. The production and accumulation of O2 dramatically transformed the earth and offered new dangers and opportunities to organisms. (1m) b. Briefly explain why O2 was dangerous to organisms on the early earth. (1m) c. How did the availability of O2 lead to an increase in the energy available to living organisms? 13. Genes and inheritance: (2m) a. Name two events during meiosis that lead to variability in the products of meiosis. (2m) b. List any gametes that could be produced by the meiotic division of cell with the genotype AABBccDD. 14. Life divides and conquers the land: (4m) Suppose that you are walking through the forest with a friend and you find Plants C and D on the forest floor. You point them out and say &quot;These belong to the same species.&quot; Your friend replies &quot;I know enough about biology to know that members of the same species should look more similar than these two.&quot; How would you explain your statement to your friend? 15. Design of organisms: (3m) Explain, using the principles of scaling, why an ant can carry objects heavier than itself while an African elephant cannot. 16. Natural selection: (5m) Ten nuts are on display at this station. Of these ten nuts, only the three marked with a white &quot;X&quot; later successfully germinated. Calculate the selection differential on nut weight from this episode of selection. Show your calculations. 17. Earth comes alive: (3m) Cyanobacteria - formerly called blue-green algae - are photosynthetic members of the Domain Bacteria. a. Why are cyanobacteria classified as members of the Domain Bacteria? b. What is the proposed role of ancestral cyanobacteria in the evolutionary history of plants? 18. Design of organisms: (3m) In frogs, venous (low O2) and arterial (high O2) blood mix somewhat in the heart, as shown in Figure B. Why is this design feature (blood mixing in the heart) poor in terms of oxygenation efficiency at the lungs? 19. Design of organisms &amp; Legacy of the past: (5m) In vertebrate evolution, there has been a reduction in the number of aortic arches - large arteries carrying blood from the heart to the body tissues - in the evolutionary lines leading to birds and mammals. In birds, the aorta loops up and travels down the right side of the body. In mammals, it's on the left. a. On the phylogenetic tree, place birds (B), mammals (M) and some common ancestor (A) which had multiple aortic arches. b. With an arrow or arrows, indicate where the modification from multiple arches to one arch occurred. 20. Forest walk (Life divides and conquers the land): (2m) a. A new bacterial species, Liveson salmonberrius, has been identified. This previously undescribed species infects salmonberry flowers and can rapidly devastate salmonberry patches. What changes might the arrival of Liveson salmonberrius select for in salmonberry's relative energy allocation to flowers and runners? Explain your answer. b. A forest area is clearcut to make way for new construction. Financing of the new construction falls through, and the now naked land is left that way. (2m) i. Name one plant species (other than red alder) that you might expect to be an early pioneer in the re-growth on this land. Give one reason why this plant is a successful pioneer species. (1m) ii. Name the term that ecologists use to describe the change that would be expected over time as the forest community re-grows. (4m) c. Name one organism at each of four trophic levels. Wherever possible, use organisms that you saw on your forest walk....",0.9448851346969604],["The potential dangers of global warming are being increasingly studied by a wide global consortium of scientists. These scientists are increasingly concerned about the potential long-term effects of global warming on our natural environment and on the planet. Of particular concern is how climate change and global warming caused by anthropogenic , or human-made releases of greenhouse gases , most notably carbon dioxide , can act interactively, and have adverse effects upon the planet, its natural environment and humans' existence. It is clear the planet is warming, and warming rapidly.–This warming is also responsible for the extinction of natural habitats,which in turn leads to a reduction in wildlife population.The most recent report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (the group of the leading climate scientists in the world) concluded that the earth will warm anywhere from 2.7 to almost 11 degrees Fahrenheit (1.5 to 6 degrees Celsius) between 1990 and 2100. [13] Efforts have been increasingly focused on the mitigation of greenhouse gases that are causing climatic changes, on developing adaptative strategies to global warming, to assist humans, other animal, and plant species, ecosystems, regions and nations in adjusting to the effects of global warming . Some examples of recent collaboration to address climate change and global warming include:",0.9442756175994873],["The potential dangers of global warming are being increasingly studied by a wide global consortium of scientists. These scientists are increasingly concerned about the potential long-term effects of global warming on our natural environment and on the planet. Of particular concern is how climate change and global warming caused by anthropogenic , or human-made releases of greenhouse gases , most notably carbon dioxide , can act interactively, and have adverse effects upon the planet, its natural environment and humans' existence. It is clear the planet is warming, and warming rapidly.–This warming is also responsible for the extinction of natural habitats,which in turn leads to a reduction in wildlife population.The most recent report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (the group of the leading climate scientists in the world) concluded that the earth will warm anywhere from 2.7 to almost 11 degrees Fahrenheit (1.5 to 6 degrees Celsius) between 1990 and 2100. [13] Efforts have been increasingly focused on the mitigation of greenhouse gases that are causing climatic changes, on developing adaptative strategies to global warming, to assist humans, other animal, and plant species, ecosystems, regions and nations in adjusting to the effects of global warming . Some examples of recent collaboration to address climate change and global warming include:",0.9442756175994873],["Construct an argument supported by evidence for how increases in human population and per-capita consumption of natural resources impact Earth's systems. [Clarification Statement: Examples of evidence include grade-appropriate databases on human populations and the rates of consumption of food and natural resources (such as freshwater, mineral, and energy). Examples of impacts can include changes to the appearance, composition, and structure of Earth’s systems as well as the rates at which they change. The consequences of increases in human populations and consumption of natural resources are described by science, but science does not make the decisions for the actions society takes.]",0.928391695022583],["Construct an argument supported by evidence for how increases in human population and per-capita consumption of natural resources impact Earth's systems. [Clarification Statement: Examples of evidence include grade-appropriate databases on human populations and the rates of consumption of food and natural resources (such as freshwater, mineral, and energy). Examples of impacts can include changes to the appearance, composition, and structure of Earth’s systems as well as the rates at which they change. The consequences of increases in human populations and consumption of natural resources are described by science, but science does not make the decisions for the actions society takes.]",0.928391695022583],["Construct an argument supported by evidence for how increases in human population and per-capita consumption of natural resources impact Earth's systems. [Clarification Statement: Examples of evidence include grade-appropriate databases on human populations and the rates of consumption of food and natural resources (such as freshwater, mineral, and energy). Examples of impacts can include changes to the appearance, composition, and structure of Earth’s systems as well as the rates at which they change. The consequences of increases in human populations and consumption of natural resources are described by science, but science does not make the decisions for the actions society takes.]",0.928391695022583],["DEFINITION: A variety of species of plant that is known only in cultivation, such as maize. A cultigen evolves after a series of cumulative changes brought about by human selection (intentional or otherwise) has acquired certain characteristics which make it better suited to being cultivated and/or productive. Another example is cultivated wheat, the grains of which, unlike those of wild wheat, do not scatter once they have reached maturity, but remain attached to the ear.",0.9250534772872925],["Increased acreages of winter wheat and of silage are two examples of changes that have brought financial benefits to farmers but have not benefited either the natural environment or hunting.",0.9232895970344543],["The reserve will become an evolution forest, a woodland in which there is no human interference and where any changes to the plant and animal populations happen naturally.",0.9171648025512695],["The reserve will become an evolution forest, a woodland in which there is no human interference and where any changes to the plant and animal populations happen naturally.",0.9171648025512695],["Plants and the Human Culture Humans have changed in their perception of plants and nature and how they interact.",0.917096734046936],["Plants and the Human Culture Humans have changed in their perception of plants and nature and how they interact.",0.917096734046936],["X1013070084-00230-61503</DOCNO> Grade Level 5 GRADE LEVEL 5 Weather (Atmosphere) (CS 4) Students will be able to: Relate observed weather conditions to different climates and seasons Investigate different stages in the water cycle (melting, freezing, and evaporation, and condensation) Observe and describe weather conditions such as clouds, temperatures, air pressure, and precipitation Identify events \nin nature that have repeating patterns or cycles, (e.g. weather patterns, water cycle) Compare and contrast the various types of common clouds Relate observed weather conditions to different climates and seasonal changes Interpret and summarize long term weather data Organize weather data on graphs and long term data collection charts Renewable and Non-renewable Resources (CS 4) Students will be able to: Identify/explain such effects human activities have on the atmosphere Ecology (CS 3) Students will be able to: Classify a variety of organisms based on their characteristics, and use this scheme as a tool to organize information about the diversity of life forms Describe/identify random differences between individuals of the same species of plant or animal (e.g. students can examine parts of plants of the same species and recognize variations, and can construct graphs and charts showing the variations) Create examples of food chains and webs in several types of ecosystems (e.g. deciduous forest, fresh water, desert, etc.) Demonstrate a basic knowledge of the process of photosynthesis and its importance for all life forms Identify and describe the basic requirements for sustaining life (e.g. plants and animals need food for energy and growth) Conduct an investigation which illustrates how the environment affects the viability of plants or animals within that environment Describe and give examples of the various types of interactions that occur among organisms (e.g. predator-prey, symbiotic, producer-consumer-decomposer, host-parasite) to demonstrate how organisms compete or cooperate with each other to gain food, resources or space Identify and describe examples of New Hampshire animals and plants that live together in one ecosystem (e.g. forest, seashore, lake, river) Identify common materials that cycle through the environment (e.g. carbon, water, carbon dioxide, oxygen, etc.) Explore through models, experiments, and observations how matter and energy interact in any ecosystem Describe how organisms can acquire energy directly or indirectly from the energy of the sun Describe similarities and differences between single celled and multicellular organisms (e.g. cell structures) Observe and describe major characteristics of various life forms (e.g. microorganisms, fungi, protists, plants, animals) Compare and contrast life processes in plants and animals (e.g. growth and development, nutrition, reproduction, etc.) Explore the adaptive relationships of animals and plants to their habitats (e.g. life in a pine cone, effects of pollution on different species, etc.) Name and describe the five kingdoms of living things Conduct an investigation which demonstrates the effect of one or more environmental factors on the viability of a plant or animal (e.g. set up a small freshwater ecosystem in an aquarium, observe the ecosystem and keep records of physical factors and the effects on all living organisms Matter (CS 5) Students will be able to: Describe objects in terms of the materials of which they are made (clay, cloth, paper) and their physical properties (color, size, shape, mass, texture, flexibility) Describe characteristics of matter that are common to solids and liquids (have mass, take up space), and that distinguish them as different phases of matter Explore how the total mass of an object or device is fixed despite changes in shape (e.g. measure mass of piece of paper before and after being crumpled or shredded or made into an airplane;",0.9163964986801147],["X1011594126-00145-34527</DOCNO> BC Education - Science K to 7 - Learning Outcomes Science K to 7 Learning Outcomes This document has been organized by the following grades: Grades K - 1 Grades 2 - 3 Grade 4 Grade 5 Grade 6 Grade 7 Grades K - 1 Life Science (Plant and Animal Characteristics) It is expected that students will: describe the characteristics of a variety of plants describe the diversity of plants within the home and school environment collaborate with others in the care of a plant or animal describe the appearance and behaviour of a variety of animals determine the requirements of healthy plants and healthy animals identify similarities and differences among animal species Life Science (Plant and Animal Life Cycles) It is expected that students will: identify the stages in the life cycle of a plant and of a pet or other animal demonstrate how plants and other organic material can be recycled back into the environment compare the life cycle of an animal hatched from an egg with one born from the mother Physical Science (Properties of Objects) It is expected that students will: describe the properties of a variety of common objects describe how objects can change over time use a variety of objects to describe motion and changes in motion Physical Science (Force and Motion) use a variety of objects to describe motion and changes in motion identify common types of forces Physical Science (Properties of Matter) differentiate between solids, liquids, and gases practice appropriate safety procedures when investigating solids, liquids, and gases Physical Science (Changes) It is expected that students will: demonstrate changes in properties of matter when it is heated or cooled demonstrate changes in properties of matter when water is added identify a variety of changes that cannot be reversed distinguish variations from regular pattern Earth and Space Science (Earth's Surface) It is expected that students will: describe the characteristics of rocks, soil, and water classify rocks and soil according to their physical characteristics identify the living and non-living materials found in soil describe the effects of water and wind on rocks and soil Earth and Space Science (Weather and Seasons) It is expected that students will: describe the properties of air describe the effects of weather on living things identify characteristics of each season infer the relationship between the position of an object, its shadow, and the sun Grades 2 - 3 Applications of Science It is expected that students will: conduct simple tests and describe observations use simple magnifiers or microscopes to observe things suggest possible improvements to investigations formulate questions to guide observation and investigations use a variety of measuring instruments to gather accurate information identify patterns and groupings to draw conclusions from information communicate scientific observations to \npeers, teachers, and family construct models to represent ideas or concepts describe the ways people in the community use science use a variety of science equipment safely conserve resources in the school Life Science (Plants in the Environment) It is expected that students will: demonstrate a knowledge of how plants take in water, nutrients, and light compare and contrast different types of plant life cycles describe structures that enable different plants to survive in different environments compare and contrast plant fossils with living organisms suggest reasons for the endangerment or extinction of plant species Life Science (Animals in the Environment) It is expected that students will: compare and contrast different types of animal life cycles compare and contrast plant and animal life cycles describe structures that enable animals to survive in different environments demonstrate a knowledge of what animals need to survive explain how animals interact with one another compare and contrast animal fossils with living organisms suggest reasons for the endangerment or extinction of animal species Life Science (Human Body - Hearing and Speech) It is expected that students will: describe the basic structure and function of the organs involved in hearing and speech relate the nature of sound to hearing describe ways to protect their hearing and speech organs from damage Physical Science (Magnetism) classify materials as magnetic or non-magnetic demonstrate the properties of magnetic attraction and repulsion describe various kinds of magnets and their force fields create a magnet Physical Science (Energy in our Lives) It is expected that students will: identify the sources of energy in a variety of devices found in the school and home describe ways energy is used in the school and home evaluate ways energy can be conserved in the school and home Physical Science (Properties of Matter) It is expected that students will: describe the three states of matter relate changes in the states of matter to thermal energy transfer distinguish between changes in matter that cannot be readily reversed and those that can identify properties of matter that may stay the same even when other properties change classify materials according to the extent to which they conduct heat Physical Science (Sound) It is expected that students will: demonstrate the ability to make sound using vibrations describe different types of sounds in terms of pitch, quality, and intensity compare how sound travels through different materials infer how we hear sounds Earth and Space Science (Sky Above Us) It is expected that students will: identify the Earth as part of a system of planets describe the unique properties of the Earth that sustain life demonstrate how the movements of the Earth cause day, night, and the seasons distinguish between the features of the day and night skies Earth and Space Science (Earth's Composition) construct a model to show that the Earth is composed of many layers give examples of how the Earth's surface changes constantly classify rocks as sedimentary, igneous, and metamorphic demonstrate a knowledge of the composition and formation of soil demonstrate an understanding of the factors involved in the composition and formation of rocks (e.g., minerals, temperatures, forces) Grade 4 Applications of Science It is expected that students will: predict the results of an experiment perform an experiment by following a procedure use appropriate tools to assist in observation construct simple definitions based on their experiment demonstrate an ability to recognize a valid interpretation of their results present their interpretation of the results from an experiment use a variety of media to present information demonstrate responsible action when using the scientific information and skills they have developed Life Science (Adaptations of Organisms) It is expected that students will: relate the structure and behaviour of local organisms to their survival in local environments discuss how changes in an organism's habitat can affect the survival of individual organisms and entire species give examples of how the differences in individuals of the same species may give an advantage in surviving and reproducing relate the growth and survival of organisms to a variety of conditions Life Science (Body Systems - Digestive, Skeletal, Muscular) It is expected that students will: describe the basic structure and function of the organs involved in digestion compare and contrast the digestive systems of humans and various animals describe the basic structure and function of the skeletal and muscular systems compare and contrast the skeletal and muscular systems of humans and various animals relate the life processes of an organism to its use of nutrients, water, and oxygen describe the changing requirements of organisms as they grow relate dietary habits and behaviour to an organism's health Physical Science (Simple Machines) It is expected that students will: manipulate simple machines to determine their characteristics and uses compare the uses of simple machines today with those in the past operate simple machines to demonstrate their usefulness in everyday life Physical Science (Electricity) It is expected that students will: demonstrate an ability to produce static charges distinguish between static and current electrical charges distinguish between a conductor and an insulator construct simple series and parallel electrical circuits give examples of how electricity is used safely analyze changes in electrical usage during the last 100 years Earth and Space Science (Water) It is expected that students will: categorize the various uses of water outline the importance of water for life use the physical properties of water to describe or illustrate the water cycle compare and contrast fresh water and salt water environments describe human impacts on the Earth's water resources Grade 5 Applications of Science It is expected that students will: design a scientific experiment identify relevant variables in an experiment identify and test a prediction classify and order based on a set of keys and criteria correctly state a hypothesis differentiate between relevant and irrelevant information use appropriate technologies to record, measure, save, and retrieve data describe technologies that allow humans to extend their natural abilities describe how technology has affected human health identify ways science is used \nresponsibly in their communities Life Science (B.C.'s Living Resources) It is expected that students will: identify living resources in the local environment describe how humans use B.C.'s living resources describe the known and potential environmental impacts of using B.C.'s living resources devise a strategy for sustaining a living resource Life Science (Body Systems - Respiratory, Circulatory, Sensory) It is expected that students will: describe the basic structure and function of the organs in the respiratory and circulatory systems compare and contrast the respiratory and circulatory systems of humans with those of other animals describe the relationship between the respiratory and circulatory systems identify the basic structure and function of the organs in the sensory system compare and contrast the sensory systems of humans with those of animals Physical Science (Materials in our World) It is expected that students will: describe basic units of matter identify common elements and molecules distinguish between natural and synthetic materials identify some unique properties of synthetic materials that are useful to society compare the environmental impacts of using natural and synthetic materials Physical Science (Light and Colour) It is expected that students will: distinguish between reflection and refraction relate differences in colour to differences in wavelengths describe how the eye uses light to see Earth and Space Science (Atmosphere and Weather) It is expected that students will: identify factors responsible for weather systems locally and globally describe the key features of a variety of weather conditions identify and measure the factors that influence local weather use instruments to measure local weather conditions describe the consequences of extreme weather conditions Earth and Space Science (B.C.'s Non-Living Resources) It is expected that students will: identify the methods of extracting and processing non-living resources describe how non-living resources are used in society describe the environmental impacts of using non-living resources Grade 6 Applications of Science It is expected that students will: design a scientific test and evaluate its fairness demonstrate the appropriate use of microscopes use instruments to make a variety of direct measurements draw reasonable conclusions from experiments organize and interpret information in simple tables and graphs write clear, step-by-step instructions for conducting investigations, operating something, or following a procedure compare ways of solving problems and finding explanations explain how hypotheses can be valuable, even if they turn out to be not true demonstrate an appreciation of the importance of keeping honest and unbiased scientific records discuss the contributions Canadians have made to science Life Science (Classification of Organisms) It is expected that students will: describe how all living things belong to one of five kingdoms (Plants, Animals, Monera, Protista, Fungi) classify plants and animals according to their internal and external features develop common classification systems for organisms Life Science (Microscopic World) It is expected that students will: describe all living things as being composed of cells identify the characteristics of various single-celled organisms describe the similarities and differences in plant and animal cells analyze the effects of micro-organisms on other organisms describe the human body's various defenses against harmful micro-organisms Physical Science (Chemical and Physical Changes) It is expected that students will: classify changes to matter as either chemical or physical identify factors affecting chemical and physical changes demonstrate chemical and physical changes Physical Science (Forces) It is expected that students will: identify the different types of forces describe the relationships among forces, motion, and mass Earth and Space Science (Space Exploration) It is expected that students will: outline the history of piloted and unpiloted flight identify the human and technological requirements for space exploration list the contributions that space exploration has made to everyday life describe Canada's contributions to space exploration evaluate piloted space exploration in comparison with unpiloted exploration Earth and Space Science (Solar System) It is expected that students will: describe the primary features of our solar system compare and contrast the conditions that support life on Earth with those on other planets and our moon relate the movement of the sun, moon, and Earth to seasons, tides, eclipses, and the phases of the moon Grade 7 Application of Science It is expected that students will: select an appropriate procedure for an investigation design an experiment involving two or more variables select appropriate equipment and techniques to collect useful quantitative and qualitative information investigate how models may be used to think about processes that cannot be observed directly evaluate conclusions in relation to other evidence and sources use graphs to summarize experimental data identify factors that have made possible or limited the work of particular scientists describe how technology and science are related propose and compare options when making decisions or taking action analyze costs and benefits of alternative scientific choices related to a community problem take responsibility for the safe and accurate use of equipment and procedures Life Science (Ecology) It is expected that students will: describe all organisms in terms of their roles as part of interconnected food webs describe ways in which species interact with each other compare and contrast the major biogeoclimatic zones of B.C. determine the limiting factors for local ecosystems outline the stages of recovery of a damaged local ecosystem Life Science (Body Systems - Reproduction, Growth, &amp; Change) It is expected that students will: compare and contrast asexual and sexual reproduction in both plants and animals describe the growth and changes in the development of an organism outline factors that influence the length and quality of life Physical Science (Environmental Chemistry) It is expected that students will: use the pH scale to classify a variety of substances identify chemical reactions that are important in the environment assess the impact of chemical pollution on a local environment collect, analyze, and interpret data on environmental quality Physical Science (Energy Sources and Options) It is expected that students will: describe different sources of energy that can be harnessed to produce electrical energy evaluate energy options available for particular purposes in the \ncommunity describe how electrical energy can be transformed into other forms of energy describe how scientific developments have influenced energy use through the ages Earth and Space Science (Astronomy) It is expected that students will: identify characteristics of known objects outside the solar system outline the changes in human understanding of the universe from early times to the present illustrate the seasonal position of various constellations Earth and Space Science (Earth's Crust) It is expected that students will: identify changes that occur to the Earth's surface due to earthquakes and volcanoes compare and contrast the geological features found on the ocean floor with those on the surface of the continents Science K-7 Integrated Resource Package Please direct any questions, comments or suggestions to Virtual Curriculum (EducationCurriculum@gems7.gov.bc.ca) Last Modified: April 16, 1998.",0.9106135368347168],["With the development of ever more efficient weapons humans have been able to kill wildlife with growing efficiency. Hunters have caused several species of animals to perish. For agriculture, industry and for living space we have cleared the forests, drained the wetlands, and dammed the rivers. This encroachment on the environment has negatively impacted vast amount of plant and animal habitat. What hasn't been destroyed has been disrupted and the natural processes altered. This affects the diversity and size of wildlife populations in these habitats. Some are no longer connected to their ecosystems.",0.9065267443656921],["How will environmental resources such as forests, water, and agriculture be affected by climate change, and what effects will these changes have on the human environment?",0.9050114750862122],["(4) Conserving forest ecosystems In order to conserve the natural environment, including conducting such activities as maintaining natural environments made up of primeval forest ecosystems, conserving plant and animal life, and preserving genetic resources, Nature Conservation Forests are established in natural forests in which the management method based on natural changes is basically applied.",0.9021039009094238],["What are some ways in which certain ecosystems are threatened or changed by human actions? (For example, overcutting in the monarch's winter Oyamel forest.) How might plants and animals be affected?",0.8980140089988708],["The first completely self-contained, space plant growth chamber was demonstrated, and wheat and mustard plants were shown to have growth patterns similar to those achieved in Earth's natural environment, thus validating chamber performance.",0.8907802700996399],["The first completely self-contained, space plant growth chamber was demonstrated, and wheat and mustard plants were shown to have growth patterns similar to those achieved in Earth's natural environment, thus validating chamber performance.",0.8907802700996399],["Garden: Family Garden Inquiry: Discovering Plant Families Forest Soil as a Home Wheat: From Seed to Bread Grade 2 Developmental How do individuals in natural and human ecosystems help each other?",0.8888010382652283],["Perhaps an example of how the \"creatures and environments behave in a natural way\" would help make this clear.",0.8779511451721191],["Perhaps an example of how the \"creatures and environments behave in a natural way\" would help make this clear.",0.8779511451721191],["To conserve forest, Pereira has introduced higher-yielding corn varieties and demonstrated, for example, how to better space their plants to make weeding easier, how to plant in rows and how to better plant crops in succession to increase yields.",0.8777530789375305],["Scientific Investigation, Reasoning, and Logic Students: plan, conduct, and participate in science investigations use simple instruments, such as the magnifying glass, and the five senses to observe the physical environment arrange and classify objects according to attributes or properties communicate data orally and through simple graphs, pictures, written statements, and numbers measure length, mass, and volume using standard and nonstandard units make predictions based on patterns of observation rather than random guesses conduct simple experiments to answer questions Earth and Space Science Students: investigate and understand Earth s natural resources and how to protect them explain why air, water, and soil are natural resources describe ways to protect Earth s natural resources Students: develop an understanding of seasonal changes and cyclical patterns in nature, including temperature, precipitation, and cloud formation observe and communicate the day s weather orally and through graphic representations both on a daily basis and over a period of time use a thermometer as a tool to record the rise and fall of temperature&#9; observe and describe in general terms how a cloud is formed (water cycle) observe and describe the various states of water--solid, liquid, gas (ice, water, water vapor/steam) &#9; Life Science Students: use their senses to explore their surroundings and obtain different information from each sense work in groups to generate a visual organizer ( a web chart) showing how the senses can be used to describe the world around them observe plants and animals during seasonal changes gather and record data in a factual manner Students: investigate and understand that plants have life needs and functional parts and can be classified according to certain characteristics identify the characteristics of plants including edible or nonedible, flowering or nonflowering, evergreen or deciduous (trees that lose their leaves in the winter) identify the needs of a plant including, air, water, light, and a place to grow identify the various sources from which plants grow, including seeds, bulbs, and parts of plants grow plants from seed and identify plant structures ( roots, stems, leaves) and their functions describe methods by which seeds travel investigate and understand the life cycle of plants understand that plants are a natural resource and that they are important to all life Students: investigate and understand that animals have life needs and specific physical characteristics identify the characteristics of animals including whether they are wild or tame or live in water homes or land homes identify the needs of animals including air, food, water, and a suitable place to live identify that animals have physical characteristics such as body coverings (scales, skin, hair, feathers), body shapes, different number of appendages, and body movements observe and record observations of earthworms identify the basic body parts of an earthworm and the stages of the earthworm s life cycle including egg, hatchling, and adult investigate through \nexperimentation, observation, and data records an earthworm s reaction to different types of soil and light create an appropriate habitat for an earthworm using knowledge from investigations Students: investigate and understand that natural resources are limited identify the following as natural resources: plants and animals, water, air, land, minerals, forests, and soils describe how reducing, reusing, and recycling wastes can help save natural resources Physical Science Students: investigate and understand how different materials interact with water observe and describe the results of mixing liquids and some everyday solids such as baking soda, chalk, powdered drink mix, sugar, and salt;",0.875903308391571],["and ways in which people can be stewards of the environment in their own spaces to help ensure a sustainable environment, for example, naturalization, stream rehabilitation, tree planting, and disuse of pesticides.",0.8752661943435669],["Stretching out from the equator on all Earth’s land surfaces is a wide belt of forests of amazing diversity and productivity. Tropical forests include dense rainforests, where rainfall is abundant year-round; seasonally moist forests, where rainfall is abundant, but seasonal; and drier, more open woodlands. Tropical forests of all varieties are disappearing rapidly as humans clear the natural landscape to make room for farms and pastures, to harvest timber for construction and fuel, and to build roads and urban areas. Although deforestation meets some human needs, it also has profound, sometimes devastating, consequences, including social conflict, extinction of plants and animals, and climate change—challenges that aren’t just local, but global. NASA supports and conducts research on tropical forests from space-based and ground-based perspectives, helping provide the information that national and international leaders need to develop strategies for sustaining human populations and preserving tropical forest biodiversity.",0.8709807395935059],["South Dakota State Content Standards: See attached for contents standards- - Grade 8 - Nature (3) -describe how scientific knowledge and processes have evolved and will continue to evolve over time (4) - Analyze the limitations of scientific study (9) Use research methods to investigate practical and/or personal scientific problems and questions Physical Science (8) explain Newton s laws of motion applies to the way the world works (inertia, acceleration gravitation, and action/ reaction) Earth/ space (5) predict the potential impact of human activities on long-range changes in surface and climate of earth (forest fires, rain forest, clear cutting) -Grade 7 - Nature (2) understand the need for continual re-evaluation of scientific knowledge - Life Science (10) explain the effects of environmental changes on dynamic equilibrium in physical and biological systems - Technology, Environment, and Society -(5) describe scientific advancements that have had an impact on the environment -(9) Describe the possible consequences of various alternative decisions for technological- related issues Grade 6 - Earth/Space (2) explain how the resource of earth support a variety of life - (4) Investigate and describe major geologic processes that have shaped the South Dakota landscape - Technology, Environment, and Society - (2) determine how science helps drive research and provides knowledge for better understanding - (4) explain how society and need can affect the direction taken by science -Social Studies: Grade 7 Geography (1) -Language Arts: use reference tools to retrieve and manage information -use a variety of structures to categorize and organize information -present informative reports that pose relevant questions and develop the topic with facts, details, and examples -Math apply simple computations, percents, fractions and decimals Measurement (2) create scale drawings to represent real world situations Assessment: Rubric developed by the teacher and students.",0.8709379434585571],["Harcombe is working first to create a clear record of how a forest population changes, then to interpret that record to learn about the interaction of natural and human forces in causing the change.",0.8703457713127136],["For example, this brings in to the environments a variety of natural objects and obstacles such as rocks, buildings, plant life, creatures, etc, which could not be realistically used within space, where you simply have a black void to contend with.",0.8649476170539856],["Under this example, the target is strictly limited to the direct human-induced activities which cause the change of forests area, that is, planting of forests on the lands other than forests and conversion of forests to some other use.",0.8606953620910645],["And they want a deeper understanding of how the natural environment affects their choices and fresh insights into changes that humans have made to that environment.",0.8530001640319824],["And they want a deeper understanding of how the natural environment affects their choices and fresh insights into changes that humans have made to that environment.",0.8530001640319824],["Consequently, plants and animals which live in the mangrove forest have to withstand or adapt to both worlds and also to the constant changes in the environment.",0.8529427647590637],["These patterns have also caused changes in the plant and animal species which live in forested environments.",0.8529427647590637],["These patterns have also caused changes in the plant and animal species which live in forested environments.",0.8529427647590637],["These patterns have also caused changes in the plant and animal species which live in forested environments.",0.8529427647590637],["Consequently, plants and animals which live in the mangrove forest have to withstand or adapt to both worlds and also to the constant changes in the environment.",0.8529427647590637],["These patterns have also caused changes in the plant and animal species which live in forested environments.",0.8529427647590637],["Regarding the example of agriculture, it is also clear that humans have the ability to change and shape their environments.",0.8437185287475586],["Regarding the example of agriculture, it is also clear that humans have the ability to change and shape their environments.",0.8437185287475586],["Indigenous perspectives and forest policies: Indigenous peoples themselves have made several clear statements about how they feel they should be accommodated by forest policy-making.",0.8408239483833313],["This may have served as incentive to clear natural forest to plant softwood monocultures.",0.8392993807792664],["The package helps students to make connections between the human development on the river and changes in plant and wildlife and to see how alterations in one location can have an impact on the environment far from the source of the change.",0.8373141288757324],["The package helps students to make connections between the human development on the river and changes in plant and wildlife and to see how alterations in one location can have an impact on the environment far from the source of the change.",0.8373141288757324],["Deforestation is the process of cutting of trees and thus clearing the forest as a part of industrialization or urbanization. It is the result of human as well as natural activities and changes taking place in nature. Men exploit forests for many purposes. The list of purposes begins from basic requirements of a house to globalization. Humans cut trees for timber, for agriculture, areas for urbanization and industrialization, etc. Even some natural events can be the cause of deforestation. Due to human activities, natural equilibrium and patterns have changed. Forest fire, change in climate and overpopulation of foreign animals and plants, etc. are some natural reasons for deforestation.",0.8358258008956909],["Environment is everything around us: that which nature has provided--air, water, climate, forests, mountains, minerals, plants, and animals that which humans have added (or taken away) with their intelligence, ingenuity, greed, and carelessness Environment is everybody around us: the people we work with, and how we do our jobs together our families, the people we pass during the day, and the expressions on their faces the number of us who are forced to try to occupy the same space at the same time the litterbugs among us, and the community's commitment to keep our streets and parks clean the way we like to spend our free time, and the values the community places on recreation the feeling we have when we get up and face a new morning, and the degree of satisfaction we feel when we go to bed at the end of the day the extent to which we Albuquerqueans enjoy living in our city, and our concern for its future well-being.",0.8347432017326355],["Cite examples of how humans have changed the capacity of an environment to support specific life forms (e.g., amphibian eggs/acid rain, extinction of species/rainforest depletion, biodiversity/clear cutting.)",0.8346266150474548],["BIO 229 – Nature Study Fall 2010 Lecture Notes – Introduction This class will study nature by investigating Biodiversity, and the relationships among plants and animals in reference to their environment There are three Domains of Life: Bacteria, Archaea & Eukarya (see diagram) Both Bacteria and Archaea include Prokaryotes (their cells lack a nucleus!) Other characteristics: Unicellular (can form colonies) Can be Autotrophic (produce food) and/or Heterotrophic (eat food) May exhibit many metabolic pathways Domain Bacteria: Kingdom Eubacteria “typical bacteria” E. coli, Lactobacilus Domain Archaea: Kingdom Archaebacteria Live in EXTREME environments Deep sea vents, extremely hot or salty, low oxygen All remaining organisms are in Domain Eukarya (their cells possess a nucleus) Diversity of life (single cell, plants, animals) Kingdom Protista (most scientists think this is a collection of Kingdoms) Unicellular (can form colonies) Autotrophic and/or Heterotrophic Ex: Volvox, Paramecium Kingdom Fungi Most are Multicellular (yeast is unicellular) All are Heterotrophic, either Saprobic (live on dead or decaying organisms) or Parasitic Ex: Mushrooms, Mold and Mildew Kingdom Plantae Mostly Multicellular and Autotrophic Non-vascular and Seedless Plants: mosses and their kin…often called “bryophytes” Vascular and Seedless Plants: ferns and their kin, horsetails Vascular Seed Plants: Most Plants…includes: Gymnosperms – the Conifers Use cones to make and hold seeds Angiosperms – the Flowering Plants Use flowers to make and hold seeds Monocots “one seed leaf” Grasses (wheat), Lilies, Irises, Orchids, Palm trees, Corn Dicots “two seed leaves” Broadleaf Trees, most shrubs and wildflowers, radishes, tomato thistles, raspberries, goldenrod Kingdom Animalia All Multicellular and All Heterotrophic Arthropods All with Exoskeletons Crustaceans, Insects, Spiders Vertebrates All with Endoskeletons Fishes (most diverse group of vertebrates out there) Amphibians (frogs, toads, salamanders) The Amniotes (these critters have broken their tie with water in terms of their reproduction and all show internal fertilization) Reptiles (turtles, lizards, snakes, & crocodiles) Birds Mammals We will study nature by Community type… Community All the living things occupying a particular area Ecosystem The community and all the non-living environmental factors Related terms: Biotic Factors are living things (“Bio” means “life”) Abiotic Factors are non-living things…examples? Weather, soil, water Also: Habitat The place where an organism lives Niche The organism’s role in the environment In communities, there are Interconnections…Food Chains & Food Webs Organized by Trophic Levels: Producers make food (plants & algae) Consumers eat other organisms These can be organized by Diet and by Level Consumer Diets include: Herbivores eat plants Carnivores eat animals Omnivores eat both! Decomposers break down wastes and dead organisms …an example… Fox 1, 2, 3, 4 Snake 2, 3 Mouse 1, 2 Grasshopper 1 Grass Food web organized by level Primary Consumers (eat the producer) [label with 1] Secondary Consumers (anyone who eats a primary consumer) [label with 2] 3rd Level Consumer (anyone who eats a secondary consumer) [label with 3] 4th Level Consumer (anyone who eats a 3rd Level consumer) [label with 4] … etc. Biomes Classified by dominant vegetation under the influence of climate Tundra Dominant Vegetation: Lichens, Mosses, Wildflowers, Shrubs & Grasses ..a word about lichens… Lichens are a symbiosis of algae and fungi (symbiosis means to “live together”) Since both benefit in this case, it is called a Mutualism Climate: Permafrost means that the deeper soil layers stay frozen year round, which is one reason we don’t see trees here! A cold and relatively dry environment Animals: Black fly, caribou, musk-ox, polar bear, arctic hare, arctic fox, snowy owl, lemming Desert Dominant Vegetation: Cacti and Succulents\\ Climate: The desert is a dry place and usually hot place It has the greatest daily temperature fluctuations Animals Prairie Dominant Vegetation: Grasses Climate: Moderate temperatures and moderate precipitation Animals Tropical Rainforest Dominant Vegetation: Tees that grow leaves year around Climate: Hot & Humid, with Daily Rainfall Animals Boreal Forest Dominant Vegetation: Conifers Climate: Cool summers/cold winters…plenty precipitation Animals Temperate Deciduous Forest Dominant Vegetation: Broadleaf Deciduous Trees Climate: Warm/hot summers with plenty precipitation Animals Geographically, we live in a transition zone between north and south… The Transition Zone Forest is a blending of the Temperate Deciduous Forest and the Boreal Forest The Course Themes: 1. Communities are dynamic……they change over time 2. Communities are on a continuum……they blend together in space …a closer look at habitats… What habitats provide: Food Water Shelter Mates But what makes a ““Good Habitat”? 1. Structure Includes: Shape, Height, Density & Diversity Together, this forms the Gestalt (general structure) Structure is also: Vertical Layers Horizontal Zones Complexity 2. Patchiness Habitats are typically Heterogeneous due to Disturbances or Physical Features of the landscape 3. Ecotone Where two distinct communities overlap…the “EDGE” 4. Size Some animals are adaptable…others are Area Sensitive 5. Special Features PAGE PAGE 3",0.8329059481620789],["Finally, human activities and natural resource interactions research addresses the way global change will impact human activities and how human activities, through agriculture and resource management, in a changed environment will affect forest and rangelands.",0.8310900926589966],["Atran's summary of the implications of ethnobiological research for our understanding of innate information processing &quot;modules&quot; is multifaceted, which makes it difficult to sort the wheat from the chaff in his argument. I believe the comparative ethnobiological evidence for how people of diverse cultures speaking radically distinct languages and inhabiting natural environments of all descriptions partition their experience of the domains of plants and animals makes sense only if we postulate, as Atran has, an innate &quot;natural kind&quot; recognition module in the human brain. As with natural language, children learn far too easily to recognize and name hundreds of folk species of plants and animals, and are apparently inclined to do this even in depauperate natural environments such as the inner city. I am not convinced, however, that a taxonomic hierarchy of discrete ranks need be part of this hypothetical biodiversity recognition module. Atran himself is of two minds on this point. He first asserts that:",0.8305355906486511],["Such changes will have an inevitable impact on the human environment within Idaho, 38 percent of which is National Forest Lands.",0.8231572508811951],["Such changes will have an inevitable impact on the human environment within Idaho, 38 percent of which is National Forest Lands.",0.8231572508811951],["An example will make this statement clear.",0.8204215168952942],["These include: Reduced production of natural resources that humans use or extract from the natural environment (for example, lower agricultural yields, smaller timber harvests from the stress of changing conditions, and scarcer water resources, though some areas could have increased agricultural and forest productivity).",0.8156642913818359],["MS-ESS3-4.Construct an argument supported by evidence for how increases in human population and per-capita consumption of natural resources impact Earth's systems. [Clarification Statement: Examples of evidence include grade-appropriate databases on human populations and the rates of consumption of food and natural resources (such as freshwater, mineral, and energy). Examples of impacts can include changes to the appearance, composition, and structure of Earth’s systems as well as the rates at which they change. The consequences of increases in human populations and consumption of natural resources are described by science, but science does not make the decisions for the actions society takes.]",0.8123427629470825],["While plants and animals, including humans, can survive in the space environment, there are clear effects (including exposure to microgravity) that have pronounced impacts on living systems.",0.8114426732063293],["Meeting this challenge will help to evaluate the impact that human activity (e.g., clearing forests and burning fossil fuels) has on our environment, and to distinguish human-induced changes from the effects of natural events (e.g. volcanic eruptions, erosion).",0.8070781826972961],["Meeting this challenge will help to evaluate the impact that human activity (e.g., clearing forests and burning fossil fuels) has on our environment, and to distinguish human-induced changes from the effects of natural events (e.g. volcanic eruptions, erosion).",0.8070781826972961],["FOREST SUCCESSION FOrest or plant succession is the natural pattern of ecosystem growth and change over time for a particular environment.",0.8026927709579468],["Many industrialist, governments, and individuals do not realize are the implications, or consequences of deforestation. Deforestation can cause numerous ecosystems, as well as, environmental issues that can be detrimental to wildlife and humans. A new study showed that deforestation in the Amazon helps spread disease by creating an optimal environment for malaria carrying Mosquitoes. Studies showed that clearing forests in the Brazilian Amazon raised the malaria spread by 50 percent. In another recent study it was discovered that only two kinds of species of stingless bees have the ability to survive deforestation. However, the rest would become extinct if they were made to adapt to deforestation. Ring-tailed Lemurs are monkeys that live in Madagascar. Due to Madagascar's growing population deforestation persists in this land causing destruction to the Lemur's habitat. In recent studies it has been shown that deforestation has caused about 12.5% of the world's plant species to become critically rare. New species of animals and plants are still being discovered to this day. In Papua New Guinea, 44 new species of animals were recently discovered in the forests. In East Java, deforestation threatens numerous rare animals, such as the Javan hawk eagle, silvery gibbon, Javan Langur, Sunda slow loris, Javan surili, Javan rhinoceros, and other rare species. Consider these facts; a single pond in Brazil can sustain a greater variety of fish than is found in all of Europe's rivers. A 25-acre plot of rainforest in Borneo may contain more than 700 species of trees - a number equal to the total tree diversity of North America. A single rainforest reserve in Peru is home to more species of birds than are found in the entire United States. One single tree in Peru was found to harbor forty-three different species of ants - a total that approximates the entire number of ant species in the British Isles. The number of species of fish in the Amazon exceeds the number found in the entire Atlantic Ocean. The importance of biodiversity in the forests appears to be meaningless to most. However, recent studies have shown that life in the forests keep, both our environment and ecosystem balanced. Annihilation or extinction of any species of life as a result of deforestation could have a dangerous impact on humanity if the loss of biodiversity persists. Degraded soil is another consequence of deforestation. When soil becomes degraded as a result of deforestation, this makes farming and cattle ranching unsustainable. Climate change is another result of deforestation. For example, in Tanzania, South Africa, Mount Kilimanjaro, Africa's highest mountain, ice cap may disappear in the year 2033. Many scientists believe the forest is the key element to this possibility, because over the past 30 to 40 years forests on Mount Kilimanjaro have disappeared on the lower slopes, cut down by villagers for charcoal and open farmland, causing a rise in temperature on the mountain. Climate change relates to the carbon sink reductions engendered by deforestation, which long term effects have contributed to the buildup of atmospheric carbon dioxide. The natural habitats of many species are affected by the results of deforestation as stated earlier with the spread of malaria. A definition of habitat is the geographical unit that effectively supports the survival and reproduction of a given species or of individuals of a given species. As a result of deforestation, other wildlife species are forced to adapt to new habitats once theirs is lost, which could be dangerous to mankind if the new habitats of hostile wildlife (panthers, snakes, Malaria carrying mosquitoes) were within a town, or city. This consequence to plant and wildlife species can also result into Habitat fragmentation, which is defined as an alteration of habitat resulting in a spatial separation of habitat units from a previous state of greater continuity, is caused by agricultural land conversion, urbanization, pollution, and deforestation. Species richness, in turn can be affected by habitat fragmentation, which would cause the number of species that are balanced in an ecosystem to become uneven in number, extinct, or brought into conflict between other species in order for survival, food, or dominance of a habitat. Increased carbon dioxide will result if deforestation continually persists. Since mankind needs trees to feed humanity oxygen, after they are totally eliminated off the face of the Earth, mankind would surely become extinct, as a result of carbon dioxide poisoning. Surface runoffs can result after deforestation. Surface runoffs is when the soil is infiltrated to full capacity and excess water, from rain, snowmelt, or other sources flow over lands. The numerous trees that make up forests feed off the water that enters the soil. If the tree are removed all the excess water, which can be consumed by trees will flood over the land, in turn harming both plant life and wildlife species alike, as well as spread disease, such as malaria. There are numerous natural causes of deforestation that are unavoidable, such as catastrophic forest fires, volcanic eruptions, stand wind throw from hurricanes, drought, changes in local climate, or rainfall regimes, and insect spread prevention. These natural factors however, represent only a small fraction of observed deforestation worldwide.",0.8018676042556763],["Many industrialist, governments, and individuals do not realize are the implications, or consequences of deforestation. Deforestation can cause numerous ecosystems, as well as, environmental issues that can be detrimental to wildlife and humans. A new study showed that deforestation in the Amazon helps spread disease by creating an optimal environment for malaria carrying Mosquitoes. Studies showed that clearing forests in the Brazilian Amazon raised the malaria spread by 50 percent. In another recent study it was discovered that only two kinds of species of stingless bees have the ability to survive deforestation. However, the rest would become extinct if they were made to adapt to deforestation. Ring-tailed Lemurs are monkeys that live in Madagascar. Due to Madagascar's growing population deforestation persists in this land causing destruction to the Lemur's habitat. In recent studies it has been shown that deforestation has caused about 12.5% of the world's plant species to become critically rare. New species of animals and plants are still being discovered to this day. In Papua New Guinea, 44 new species of animals were recently discovered in the forests. In East Java, deforestation threatens numerous rare animals, such as the Javan hawk eagle, silvery gibbon, Javan Langur, Sunda slow loris, Javan surili, Javan rhinoceros, and other rare species. Consider these facts; a single pond in Brazil can sustain a greater variety of fish than is found in all of Europe's rivers. A 25-acre plot of rainforest in Borneo may contain more than 700 species of trees - a number equal to the total tree diversity of North America. A single rainforest reserve in Peru is home to more species of birds than are found in the entire United States. One single tree in Peru was found to harbor forty-three different species of ants - a total that approximates the entire number of ant species in the British Isles. The number of species of fish in the Amazon exceeds the number found in the entire Atlantic Ocean. The importance of biodiversity in the forests appears to be meaningless to most. However, recent studies have shown that life in the forests keep, both our environment and ecosystem balanced. Annihilation or extinction of any species of life as a result of deforestation could have a dangerous impact on humanity if the loss of biodiversity persists. Degraded soil is another consequence of deforestation. When soil becomes degraded as a result of deforestation, this makes farming and cattle ranching unsustainable. Climate change is another result of deforestation. For example, in Tanzania, South Africa, Mount Kilimanjaro, Africa's highest mountain, ice cap may disappear in the year 2033. Many scientists believe the forest is the key element to this possibility, because over the past 30 to 40 years forests on Mount Kilimanjaro have disappeared on the lower slopes, cut down by villagers for charcoal and open farmland, causing a rise in temperature on the mountain. Climate change relates to the carbon sink reductions engendered by deforestation, which long term effects have contributed to the buildup of atmospheric carbon dioxide. The natural habitats of many species are affected by the results of deforestation as stated earlier with the spread of malaria. A definition of habitat is the geographical unit that effectively supports the survival and reproduction of a given species or of individuals of a given species. As a result of deforestation, other wildlife species are forced to adapt to new habitats once theirs is lost, which could be dangerous to mankind if the new habitats of hostile wildlife (panthers, snakes, Malaria carrying mosquitoes) were within a town, or city. This consequence to plant and wildlife species can also result into Habitat fragmentation, which is defined as an alteration of habitat resulting in a spatial separation of habitat units from a previous state of greater continuity, is caused by agricultural land conversion, urbanization, pollution, and deforestation. Species richness, in turn can be affected by habitat fragmentation, which would cause the number of species that are balanced in an ecosystem to become uneven in number, extinct, or brought into conflict between other species in order for survival, food, or dominance of a habitat. Increased carbon dioxide will result if deforestation continually persists. Since mankind needs trees to feed humanity oxygen, after they are totally eliminated off the face of the Earth, mankind would surely become extinct, as a result of carbon dioxide poisoning. Surface runoffs can result after deforestation. Surface runoffs is when the soil is infiltrated to full capacity and excess water, from rain, snowmelt, or other sources flow over lands. The numerous trees that make up forests feed off the water that enters the soil. If the tree are removed all the excess water, which can be consumed by trees will flood over the land, in turn harming both plant life and wildlife species alike, as well as spread disease, such as malaria. There are numerous natural causes of deforestation that are unavoidable, such as catastrophic forest fires, volcanic eruptions, stand wind throw from hurricanes, drought, changes in local climate, or rainfall regimes, and insect spread prevention. These natural factors however, represent only a small fraction of observed deforestation worldwide.",0.8018676042556763],["To demonstrate knowledge of how a forest changes through natural succession and human interventions.",0.8004856109619141],["To demonstrate knowledge of how a forest changes through natural succession and human interventions.",0.8004856109619141],["Ecosystems are complex with many interacting parts. They are routinely exposed to various disturbances, or changes in the environment that effect their compositions: yearly variations in rainfall and temperature and the slower processes of plant growth, which may take several years. Many of these disturbances are a result of natural processes. For example, when lightning causes a forest fire and destroys part of a forest ecosystem, the ground is eventually populated by grasses, then by bushes and shrubs, and later by mature trees, restoring the forest to its former state. The impact of environmental disturbances caused by human activities is as important as the changes wrought by natural processes. Human agricultural practices, air pollution, acid rain, global deforestation, overfishing, eutrophication, oil spills, and illegal dumping on land and into the ocean are all issues of concern to conservationists.",0.7984679341316223],["Ecosystems are complex with many interacting parts. They are routinely exposed to various disturbances, or changes in the environment that effect their compositions: yearly variations in rainfall and temperature and the slower processes of plant growth, which may take several years. Many of these disturbances are a result of natural processes. For example, when lightning causes a forest fire and destroys part of a forest ecosystem, the ground is eventually populated by grasses, then by bushes and shrubs, and later by mature trees, restoring the forest to its former state. The impact of environmental disturbances caused by human activities is as important as the changes wrought by natural processes. Human agricultural practices, air pollution, acid rain, global deforestation, overfishing, eutrophication, oil spills, and illegal dumping on land and into the ocean are all issues of concern to conservationists.",0.7984679341316223],["Ecosystems are complex with many interacting parts. They are routinely exposed to various disturbances, or changes in the environment that effect their compositions: yearly variations in rainfall and temperature and the slower processes of plant growth, which may take several years. Many of these disturbances are a result of natural processes. For example, when lightning causes a forest fire and destroys part of a forest ecosystem, the ground is eventually populated by grasses, then by bushes and shrubs, and later by mature trees, restoring the forest to its former state. The impact of environmental disturbances caused by human activities is as important as the changes wrought by natural processes. Human agricultural practices, air pollution, acid rain, global deforestation, overfishing, eutrophication, oil spills, and illegal dumping on land and into the ocean are all issues of concern to conservationists.",0.7984679341316223],["Now, this is a sort of extreme example, but the bottom line was that we were clearly going to have to make some major changes to the plant.",0.797146737575531],["For example, the category of the natural environment looks at the trends in biodiversity to indicate sustainability, with the acres of protected space as a measurement for determining the natural health of the ecosystem for human, animal and plant life.",0.7969854474067688],["Rainforests are dense forests of tall trees in a region of year-round rainfall and warmth. Most of the traditional as well as modern medicines are sourced from rainforest plants. Rainforests are gifts of nature and are home to numerous species of animals. The typical climate conditions are responsible for the manner in which rainforests have grown. The American, the African and the Asian rainforests, precious biomes of the world, display a spectacular variety of groups of animals and plants. It is quite interesting to know how the animals in the rainforests adapt to the changing environment and evolve as 'successfully survived species'.",0.7954003214836121],["The planned $60 million project would have clear-felled 850,000 hectares of natural forest to make way for a eucalyptus wood-chip and pulping plant.",0.7950488924980164],["The protection of natural environment for the better being of human and environment is referrred to Natural Environmental protection. The clear protection of water, air, food etc. will protect the environment which implies in climate change.",0.7921444773674011],["X1014296747-00121-26891</DOCNO> INQUIRY SKILLS Elementary Science Standards Science Home Page Grade One Science A. INQUIRY SKILLS Students will conduct investigations using the processes of scientific inquiry Access information from a variety of reliable sources Design and conduct observational investigations to solve a problem or answer a question Select and use appropriate tools to collect and record data, measure data, and make observations Ask questions about phenomena, make predictions, and begin to use scientific vocabulary in reporting observations Use classification systems Organize and explain data graphically Interpret data from observations and investigations Construct representative models of phenomena Describe objects, procedures, and results orally Summarize and state conclusions of scientific investigations B. PHYSICAL SCIENCE Students will identify the properties of objects and materials Sort objects using observable properties such as color, shape, texture, temperature, size, smell, and weight Investigate methods for weighing and measuring objects using standard units of measure Contrast two states of water Students will explore the position and motion of objects Explore how pushes and pulls will change the movement of an object (examples: position, speed, and direction) Demonstrate that movement can have different speeds (slow, fast) Manipulate moving objects (vibration) in order to produce different sounds Students will explore characteristics of light, heat, and magnetism Investigate sources of light and heat Explore light and shadows and how shadows change at different times of the day C. LIFE SCIENCE Students will identify the characteristics of organisms Investigate living and nonliving things and compare their attributes Contrast characteristics of animal behaviors (how they eat, move, communicate, and reproduce) Investigate how animals, including people, use their senses to learn about the world Students will understand that organisms have life cycles Grow plants and observe all stages of the life cycle Explain how animals start out as babies, grow into adults, and eventually die Students will study how organisms survive in their environments Compare how the needs of students are similar to the needs of plants and animals D. EARTH AND SPACE SCIENCE Students will identify the properties of earth materials Compare different land forms and bodies of water around the school and community Observe and describe a variety of rocks by their physical properties Students will identify objects in the sky Investigate the sun as the source of light and heat Illustrate types of objects seen in the sky during the day and night Students will describe changes in Earth and sky Record daily weather changes in the local environment (examples: sunny, rainy, fog, snow) Give examples of how weather affects the lives of living things Observe and describe seasonal patterns Find examples of moving air E. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY Students will identify simple technologies Investigate simple technology used in the classroom and home and describe how they help students Students will demonstrate appropriate grade level ability in technology design Design a simple device for moving an object and use the device for transporting the object F. SCIENCE IN PERSONAL AND SOCIAL PERSPECTIVES Students will practice safety \nDemonstrate personal and group safety when engaging in science activities Students will describe characteristics and changes in population Identify different populations within the school, community, human groups, animals, and insects Keep a record of changes in the classroom or outside areas of the school over a period of time (examples: plant growth, animals, birds, snails) Students will identify types of resources Demonstrate wise use of limited classroom materials, supplies, and time Determine that resources can be extended through recycling and conservation Students will describe how environments change Observe and describe changes in the classroom environment Practice ways to improve the environment G. HISTORY AND NATURE OF SCIENCE Students will identify science as a human endeavor Recognize that science is an activity that students can do in the classroom Identify community members who use science in their work",0.7904250025749207],["214 Principles of Environmental Biology (2nd sem) Examines the nature of the relationships of plants, animals, and humans to their environment and how these may change when pollutants are introduced.",0.7846497893333435],["214 Principles of Environmental Biology (2nd sem) Examines the nature of the relationships of plants, animals, and humans to their environment and how these may change when pollutants are introduced.",0.7846497893333435],["extends and refines knowledge of ways physical and human characteristics of selected regions have changed over time (for example, tree clearing in rain forests).",0.7839069962501526],["Examples of acceptable topics are: general changes in a forest ecosystem caused by natural or human intervention, a specific species of tree or medicinal plant, evolution of policy or practice, resource agencies and industries, resource dependent communities, and changes in science or technology.",0.7823601961135864],["How to apply geography to interpret the present and plan for the future Geography Themes: Human/Environment Interaction, Place Materials One copy of the &#147;Environmental Explorer Data Sheet&#148; handout for each student Poster paper and markers (or an overhead transparency and marker) Paper plus (+) and minus (-) signs that are large enough to be seen across the classroom Brief statements on environmental issues (prepared \nby teacher) News articles about environmental issues (optional) Overhead projector (optional) Objectives Students are expected to Analyze the natural and human features of the environment Recognize ways in which the natural environment has been altered for human use Evaluate the effects of changes that people make to the natural environment Learn to appreciate and understand different points of view regarding the use of the environment Opening the Lesson Introduce students to the term &#147;environment.",0.781703531742096],["Research demonstrates that organisms have additional power to change the environment by altering stocks and flows of water, energy, and elements at both small and large scales (Beerling 2007; Morton 2008). For example, paleoecology documents how the evolution of photosynthetic organisms released oxygen that precipitated iron oxides and then accumulated in the atmosphere, changing its composition and generating Earth’s ozone layer (Cowan 1990). The ozone layer then reduced UV radiation on terrestrial surfaces, and helped to protect organisms emerging onto land from potentially lethal does of UV. Today plant life controls a large fraction of energy and water fluxes between land and the atmosphere. Scientists estimate that in the extreme case of removing all plant life from land, rainfall on Earth would drop by 50% (Kleidon et al. 2007). Animals also play critical roles in influencing the physical properties of ecosystems. For example, recent work shows how underground termites in Kenya increase grassland productivity and biodiversity over large areas by raising soil fertility in evenly spaced circles (Figure 5; Pringle et al. 2010). In the twenty-first century, key ecological questions center on human manipulation of the Earth’s environment. Future research will grapple with conflicts between human needs for food, fuel, and fiber, and preservation of natural biodiversity and ecological function (World Health Organization 2005).",0.7794905304908752],["I will merely indicate things which he does and which I think he ought not to do, postponing my suggestions for \"planting\" the times which I shall have cleared--as a settler clears spaces in a forest.",0.7781940698623657],["Specific plants have been studied in the laboratory (for example, potatoes and wheat) for applicability to the CELSS environment.",0.7779510021209717],["Forest practices which have a potential for a substantial impact on the environment, may be subject to an environmental evaluation if the Department of Natural Resources determines that an impact statement should be prepared.",0.7777369618415833],["On the arid lands there will spring up industrial colonies without smoke and without smokestacks; forests of glass tubes will extend over the plains and glass buildings will rise everywhere; inside of these will take place the photochemical processes that hitherto have been the guarded secret of the plants, but that will have been mastered by human industry which will know how to make them bear even more abundant fruit than nature, for nature is not in a hurry and humankind is.",0.7745965123176575],["On the arid lands there will spring up industrial colonies without smoke and without smokestacks; forests of glass tubes will extend over the plains and glass buildings will rise everywhere; inside of these will take place the photochemical processes that hitherto have been the guarded secret of the plants, but that will have been mastered by human industry which will know how to make them bear even more abundant fruit than nature, for nature is not in a hurry and humankind is.",0.7745965123176575],["It refers to land under natural or planted stands of trees, whether productive or not, and includes land from which forests have been cleared but that will be reforested in the foreseeable future.",0.7736005783081055],["It is clear to us that changes in our present global environment are occuring at rates are that comparable to those which have naturally occured in the past.",0.7724438905715942],["Not all forms of life on earth are the result of natural selection. Humans are responsible for changing traits in some organisms because we have bred them through artificial selection, to possess certain traits we find valuable to us. Many examples are from domesticated animals such as dogs that are more docile than wolves, and plants that yield more fruit than their wild relatives. The great variety of dog breeds we see today are the result of humans choosing which traits they should possess, because we chose which male and female dogs should breed to create the desired traits in successive generations. Similarly, the varieties of colors and designs we see in many garden flowers are often the result of human tinkering. Genetically modified foods are the result of humans artificially selecting traits, and literally moving the DNA responsible for these traits into other plants. Problems with artificial selection arise because humans are choosing the trait(s), as opposed to the environment making the demand on the organism, which may not make an organism better suited to its environment. This can lead to organisms which lack resistance to disease, because we inadvertently removed these genes during the breeding and domestication processes.",0.7691512703895569],["The \"Natural Resources, the Environment and Ecosystems\" site is designed to aid teachers in making their students more aware of how plants, animals and humans interact with ecosystems.",0.7688512206077576],["The \"Natural Resources, the Environment and Ecosystems\" site is designed to aid teachers in making their students more aware of how plants, animals and humans interact with ecosystems.",0.7688512206077576],["In line plantings, swaths are cleared through natural forest and laurel seedlings or stump plants are planted at specified spacing up and down the lines.",0.7683852910995483],["In line plantings, swaths are cleared through natural forest and laurel seedlings or stump plants are planted at specified spacing up and down the lines.",0.7683852910995483],["She added that the City must become much more clear and aggressive about how it encourages appropriate open space for both human needs and the natural environment, saying open space could be encouraged for private development as well.",0.7678261399269104],["Can we push this observation further and say that all animals and plants in the fossil record are of a kind no longer represented? No, because that does not happen to be true. But can we at least make the much more interesting and important hypothesis that all kinds of animals and plants eventually will be supplanted by other forms? This also is not falsifiable and is really identical to the assertion that every man has his price. It says, in fact, that every species is mortal, that there exists a time in the future at which any given species will no longer exist. If statements about the universality of evolution are historicist rather than scientific, it still might be that the principles underlying the mechanism of evolution are falsifiable in explaining any particular case of evolution. But that is clearly not the case. The statement of natural selection is that there exists an environment–a combination of temperature, humidity, food, soil, competition of other forms–in which different variants will have different relative reproductive rates. But applied to the past or the future, such a statement has such vast explanatory and predictive power that it is empirically empty. To say that the dinosaurs became extinct because some change in environment caused their rate of reproduction to be lowered below the replacement point, or to say that certain amphibia gave rise to reptiles because some environment existed which favored heritable variation in that direction, is, by Popper’s criterion, to say nothing.",0.7661452889442444],["A species being eliminated by processes such as the human related introductions of exotic pests, applications of poisonous chemicals, forest clearing, etc., is far different than a species being unable to adapt to a naturally changing environment.",0.7602723240852356],["A species being eliminated by processes such as the human related introductions of exotic pests, applications of poisonous chemicals, forest clearing, etc., is far different than a species being unable to adapt to a naturally changing environment.",0.7602723240852356],["endangered species - a species of plant or animal of which numbers are decreasing at an alarming rate and is threatened with extinction by human-made or natural changes in the environment.",0.7568660378456116],["endangered species - a species of plant or animal of which numbers are decreasing at an alarming rate and is threatened with extinction by human-made or natural changes in the environment.",0.7568660378456116],["endangered species - a species of plant or animal of which numbers are decreasing at an alarming rate and is threatened with extinction by human-made or natural changes in the environment.",0.7568660378456116],["PreK -4 Science and Technology and Human Affairs: Give examples that we as individuals, groups, and communities can make decisions that change the natural environment.",0.755403995513916],["Unlike plants and animals adapting to new environments, humans have intellect, which makes them highly-flexible.",0.7541206479072571],["Unlike plants and animals adapting to new environments, humans have intellect, which makes them highly-flexible.",0.7541206479072571],["In addition to having the ability to adapt to their environments, living organisms have the ability to change their environments. For example, humans can alter their environment by cutting down trees or planting more trees.",0.7538650631904602],["Whereas, Massachusetts contains natural areas of old growth forest that harbor exemplary plant communities which have grown virtually unaltered by human activity for generations.",0.7513341307640076],["Of particular importance are the following issues: theoretical understanding of human demographic behavior including how people make decisions about childbearing, household formation, and residential location and how the environment affects these decisions theoretical and empirical understanding of how humans value the environment and how they adapt to a changing environment including degraded environments understanding of the environmental effects of urbanization in both urban and rural areas and how ecological footprints can be reduced understanding of the effects of population size and growth on the sustainability of resources (e.g., water, forests, soils, and food) understanding of rural to rural migration and to its relationships to the natural environment.",0.7506937384605408],["Examples include, inter alia: Providing clear scientific evidence on climate and UV variability and change within the Arctic at hemispheric and regional levels, indicating the nature of impacts on human health, the natural environment, and food and water resources;",0.7506358027458191],["Human activities through the ages have brought profound changes to the landscape of the region: Except for the boreal forests in Siberia, for example, natural forests in the region have long been destroyed.",0.7475892901420593],["Humans select how a plant or animals change instead of nature.",0.7473803758621216],["Humans select how a plant or animals change instead of nature.",0.7473803758621216],["Most of these detrimental forest practices of the past have caused changes in forest practices rules, regulations and methodologies with the intention of reducing negative impacts to both the human and natural environment.",0.7469279170036316],["Describe 3 examples of how plants have adapted to their environment and 3 examples of how animals have adated to their environment.",0.746849536895752],["History offers us a window on the consistency of human nature over centuries, a description of social change, examples of mistakes and miscalculations that altered the course of events, and lastly, how the environment or culture of a time and place can make it ripe for dramatic changes.",0.7463463544845581],["Some of the themes included are environment, space, creepy crawlies, rain forests, the human body, natural disasters, dinosaurs, ecosystems and more.",0.7458703517913818],["It is hoped people will be motivated and inspired by the information below, to understand how, since the mid-thirties, this society has been reduced to an infantile status in which the awareness has been lost of how exceedingly useful a natural resource the vegetable hemp is, and, how simply changing the way we have been taught to think about this plant, will enable us to clear away the stagnant, constipated, tired and inappropriate thinking that has inhibited some of the very best qualities of human innovation, creativity, and resourcefulness for more than half a century.",0.7433817982673645],["The plantations are grown by planting saplings on cleared natural forests.",0.743269145488739],["Non-indigenous or \"invading\" species have caused species extinctions, disease in plants, wildlife and humans, and wholesale changes in the organization of natural environments.",0.7429278492927551],["Non-indigenous or \"invading\" species have caused species extinctions, disease in plants, wildlife and humans, and wholesale changes in the organization of natural environments.",0.7429278492927551],["make judgements about how science and technology have transformed the physical world and human society and our understanding of time, space, place, and human-environment interactions;",0.7404658198356628],["The very climate of the Earth is dependent on the vital ecosystems that comprise it. The Earth's forests perform the vital task of photosynthesis, which removes carbon dioxide from the atmosphere as plants make food. If the forests are cleared and not replaced our atmosphere will change.",0.7395771145820618],["Economic intensification, more permanent settlements and larger social groups Neolithic Revolution Early views portrayed the origins of agriculture as a revolution and assumed that: Humans became better able to control nature Increased productivity created more free time Greater time available for cultural innovations, that is to create civilization (writing, art, wheel, monumental architecture, etc.) Domestication Early assumptions not supported by current data, but clearly food production did have critical effect on the course of human history Domestication=production of new species of plant and animals that owe their existence to human intervention Active interference in the life cycles of plants and animals by humans such that subsequent generations are of greater utility for and in more intimate contact with humans For species, domestication demands increased dependence on humans Domesticate defined as new species, having undergone some morphological change from wild species, but domestication as process more complicated than this Domestication as Process Domestication was not an event or invention, but the end point of a gradual process Foraging and unintentional influence on diversity, frequency, and distribution of wild plants and animals Plant/animal management (Intentional influence): cultivation, domestication, intensified food production Foraging and Unintentional Consequences Process began as byproduct of exploitation Selective harvesting of species whose range of genetic variation includes individuals of great value to humans (selects for certain individuals and skews genetics) Or, transplanting selected individuals into habitat not conducive to natural reproduction Also, altering habitat to promote certain plants or certain traits of plants Cultivation deliberate care afforded the propagation of a species (Ford 1985) Weeding, pruning, watering, protecting from predators A step further with deliberate transplanting Next step: sowing Cultivation helped to concentrate harvest and provide a more reliable seasonal supplement, but not a high-yield, storable resource Plant Domestication Final stage: intentional selection for useful traits leads to plant species dependent on humans for survival and reproduction Higher-yield, storable Early Centers in the Old World: Near-Middle East: wheat and barley Far East: rice and millet Evidence of Early Plant Domestication Wild cereal \ngrasses, such as wheat, barley, and corn, have fragile (brittle) stems (rachis) Under natural conditions, grasses have brittle rachis and seeds fall off easily and are widely scattered for effective reproduction Domesticated grasses have a tough rachis and seeds stay on, facilitating harvesting It also increases the dependency of the plant on human intervention to reproduce Origins of Agriculture: Near East The Fertile Crescent Arc of territory from the Jordan Valley and eastern Mediterranean to lower Mesopotamia (Tigris and Euphrates Rivers) Agriculture began as by-product of exploiting wild grasses in late Pleistocene Cradle of Civilization : 6,000 years ago the first state-level civilization, Sumer, evolved after 4,000 year process of plant domestication Natufian Hunters-Gatherers From 13,000-10,000 BP, hunters-gatherers known as Natufian culture collected wild wheat and barley for food Mobile settlement, using wild plant resources seasonally (not focused on any resource though) Shift from simple to complex foraging Limiting Properties of Wild Wheat and Barley Brittle rachis portion to which kernel was attached became brittle when ripe for seed dispersal, so had to be there at precise moment Thick husks difficult to remove edible kernel (required roasting or soaking, then winnowing) Only two-row kernels, not a lot of food potential per plant Dispersed occurrence scattered distribution of wild plants limited yield Intensification Despite shortcomings, wild plants formed a significant and important resource Populations sought the densest stands of wheat and barley and came up with innovations to improve returns Sickles and containers for harvesting, storage facilities, grinding basins, plant roasting pits Wild wheat (left) from Mureybat, Syria compared to domesticated variety from Greece some 2-3,000 years later Childe s Oasis Theory As Pleistocene glaciers melted, world s climate became hotter and drier In desert areas, the few well watered areas became oases People, animals, and plants became more densely concentrated near oases and desert streams Forced association led to greater intimacy, even symbiotic relationships, between humans and plants/animals Jericho, Jordan Valley (Israel) Kathleen Kenyon tested Childe s model at Jericho, an early permanent settlement in Israel, in the 1950s Natufian camp located adjacent spring at c. 10,500 BP Farming village appears soon afterwards (so-called pre-pottery Neolithic) Massive walled settlement much larger than anything before Jericho, once again Proto-neolithic (11,000 BP) - Natufian PPNA: domesticated wheat and barley dominate, sheep and goat use increased - 5 acres of closely spaced circular mud-brick houses (2,000 people) with huge enclosing wall PPNB- larger settlement, square houses, sheep and goats constituted vast majority of animal bones (80",0.738122820854187],["The Brazilian satellites -- which have been developed by the National Institute of Space Research, INPE, jointly with the Aerospace Technical Center [CTA] -- are used to monitor clearing of land by burning in the Amazon rain forest, to make weather forecasts, and to watch the water level of rivers to ensure better operation of hydroelectric plants.",0.7365748882293701],["IH uncovers how Nature equipped men, and non-human organisms as well, with drives which make them suitable to their natural and social environments.",0.7358214855194092],["The definition also covers animal and plant species which have reverted to the wild state or have become naturalized by human influence and have maintained populations in the natural environment for several generations without human support.",0.7342039942741394],["Expressions of culture are found in \"the arts\", the popular media, folklore, customs, social institutions and creations, from buildings to clothing ecological integrity a property of ecosystems that are healthy and that have not been subject to stress, such as pollution, the removal of vegetation, etc. ecology the study of plants and animals in relation to each other and the environments in which they live ecomuseum \"a museum without walls\", often a series of related community projects which help to take the museum concept understanding the importance of culture and heritage and taking steps to maintain them into the community ecosystem an interdependent system of living organisms with their physical and geographical environment ecosystem diversity the variability in types of ecosystem ecotourism tourism that has as its focus nature- related experiences (e.g. whale watching) and that helps people appreciate and understand our natural resources and their conservation endangered spaces coined by environmental groups to refer to threatened natural areas, such as tall- grass prairie, old growth forests and wetlands environment everything that surrounds an organism or organisms, including both natural and human- built elements environmental citizen someone who accepts the responsibilities of caring for the environment and acts on them by becoming informed and involved exotic species species that was not originally found in a given area but is now found there as a direct or indirect consequence of human activity (see also alien species ) feral species domestic species that have \"gone wild\" genetic diversity the infinite variation of possible genetic combinations among individuals what enables a species to adapt to changes in the environment habitat the place where a species lives heritage the set of all things, places and ideas we have inherited from the past that are special to a community, including both natural and human- built elements, and that are important to protect for future generations historic having importance in, or significance to, history historic sites places where history happened.",0.7335078120231628]]