[["Which animal is the prey in this food chain?",2.038579225540161],["FOOD CHAIN \nThe food chain (or food web) is all of the interactions between predators and prey in which plants and animals obtain nutrition.",1.939112901687622],["FOOD CHAIN The food chain (or food web) is all of the interactions between predators and prey in which plants and animals obtain nutrition.",1.939112901687622],["FOOD CHAIN The food chain (or food web) is all of the interactions between predators and prey in which plants and animals obtain nutrition.",1.939112901687622],["FOOD CHAIN The food chain (or food web) is all of the interactions between predators and prey in which plants and animals obtain nutrition.",1.939112901687622],["FOOD CHAIN The food chain (or food web) is all of the interactions between predators and prey in which plants and animals obtain nutrition.",1.939112901687622],["The one nutrient needed by animals that plants do not manufacture is cholesterol . Herbivores must be able to metabolically manufacture cholesterol, whereas carnivores can obtain it by eating herbivores. The farther up the food chain an animal is, the less deleterious is might be to lose a nutrient's synthetic pathway, since the organism's prey (or host) will likely provide the necessary nutrients.",1.859626293182373],["The farther up the food chain an animal is, the less deleterious is might be to lose a nutrient's synthetic pathway, since the organism's prey (or host) will likely provide the necessary nutrients.",1.8231173753738403],["FOOD WEB The food web (or food chain) is all of the interactions between predators and prey in which plants and animals obtain nutrition.",1.792519450187683],["FOOD WEB The food web (or food chain) is all of the interactions between predators and prey in which plants and animals obtain nutrition.",1.792519450187683],["FOOD WEB The food web (or food chain) is all of the interactions between predators and prey in which plants and animals obtain nutrition.",1.792519450187683],["FOOD WEB The food web (or food chain) is all of the interactions between predators and prey in which plants and animals obtain nutrition.",1.792519450187683],["FOOD WEB The food web (or food chain) is all of the interactions between predators and prey in which plants and animals obtain nutrition.",1.792519450187683],["There are two types of food chains: the grazing food chain, beginning with autotrophs, and the detrital food chain, beginning with dead organic matter (Smith & Smith 2009). In a grazing food chain, energy and nutrients move from plants to the herbivores consuming them, and to the carnivores or omnivores preying upon the herbivores. In a detrital food chain, dead organic matter of plants and animals is broken down by decomposers, e.g., bacteria and fungi, and moves to detritivores and then carnivores.",1.7611114978790283],["In the food chain, animals eat large quantities of their prey or plants, and for compounds that bioaccumulate, this can cause higher concentrations in organisms at successive levels of the food chain.",1.7028172016143799],["All organisms, dead or alive, are potential food sources for other organisms. A caterpillar eats a leaf, a robin eats the caterpillar, a hawk eats the robin. Eventually, the tree and the hawk also die and are consumed by decomposers. Organisms in an ecological community are related to each other through their dependence on other organisms for food. In a food chain a producer is eaten by a herbivore that is in turn eaten by a carnivore. Eventually, the carnivore dies and is eaten by a decomposer. For example, in a lake, phytoplankton are eaten by zooplankton and zooplankton are eaten by small fish. The small fish are eaten by large fish. The large fish eventually die and decompose. Nothing goes to waste. Food chains are channels for the oneway flow of solar energy captured by photosynthesis through the living components of ecosystems. Food chains are also pathways for the recycling of nutrients from producers, through herbivores, carnivores, omnivores, and decomposers, finally returning to the producers. The perfectly linear relations represented by food chains are almost never found in natural ecosystems. Although all organisms have somewhat specialized diets, most can eat a variety of different foods. Thus, each trophic level appears as part of several different interconnected food chains. These food chains combine into highly complex food webs. As with food chains, a food web's source of energy is the sun. The solar energy is harvested by producers such as green plants or algae. These producers are known as autotrophs or photosynthesizing autotrophs. Almost all other organisms obtain their energy, directly or indirectly, from the sun. The exceptions are the communities found around deep ocean thermal vents, which are supported by various bacteria that convert heat energy into stored chemical energy. These bacteria are known as chemotrophs or chemosynthetic autotrophs. Autotrophs are always found at the first trophic level. In an ecosystem this trophic level may include monerans, protists, and several different phyla of plants. They can all be placed at the first trophic level because they all have the same source of energy, and the entire food web depends on the energy harvested by them. For example, in a grazing food web, a herbivore eats living plant tissue and is eaten in turn by an array of carnivores and omnivores. Herbivores and the carnivores that prey on them are known as heterotrophs. In contrast, a detrivore (also a heterotroph) harvests energy from dead organic material and provides energy for a separate food chain. Each step in a food web or food chain involves a transfer of matter and energy (in the form of chemical bonds stored in food) from organism to organism. Thus food webs are energy webs because the relationships represented by connections in the web represent the flow of energy from a group of organisms at one trophic level to another group of organisms at a different level. Because energy is lost (as waste heat) at each step, food chains rarely involve more than four or five steps or trophic levels. At each level the organisms waste much energy in the form of heat generated by normal activity. Only a fraction is stored as food or used for growth. Only about 10 percent of the food entering a link is available for the next organism in the chain. After about five links, there is insufficient energy to support a population of organisms (other than decomposers). For example, in the food chain starting with diatoms and ending with killer whales, only about 0.01 percent of the initial energy stored by the diatoms is delivered to the killer whales. Energy flow through a food web depends greatly on the nature of the producers at the first trophic level. These are usually photosynthetic plants, phytoplankton, or algae. In forest ecosystems, trees are the largest and most abundant organism. They determine the physical structure of the ecosystem, and they can be eaten directly by small or even very large animals. However, much of the matter and energy harvested by the trees goes to build a supporting structure. These supporting structures are composed of cellulose and other wood fibers that are poor sources of energy (although they may be good sources of valuable minerals and other nutrients). In contrast, grasses do not invest much energy in supporting structures, so more energy is available per kilogram of plant material present to the grazers that obtain energy from plants. Consequently, all of the aboveground parts of the grass plants are eaten by herbivores. Energy spreads out through the food web, from the lowest trophic level to the highest. At the \"top of the food chain,\" large carnivores harvest the remaining energy. However, all things eventually die, no matter where they are in the food web, and the dead organic matter accumulates in the soil, lake bottom, or forest floor. This detritus becomes the basis for a completely different ecosystem, the detritus food web. Detritus feeders and decomposers harvest solar energy from the detritus by breaking down the organic material into simpler organic compounds and inorganic compounds. By this process, the matter is recycled and made available for reuse by plants. The detritus food web is vitally important to all ecosystems on Earth. Without it, dead organic matter would accumulate and bury everything. Humans are omnivores. They can operate on several trophic levels, eating plants, insects, mammals, birds, fish, mollusks, and many other organisms. Humans can also shorten the food chain when resources are scarce. In areas of the world where the population may be straining resources, people commonly increase the total food supply by eliminating one or more steps in the food chain. For example, to obtain more energy humans can switch from eating herbivores that obtain their energy from cereal grains to eating the cereal grains themselves. The food web does not tell us everything there is to know about the complex biological communities called ecosystems. Not all relationships are equally important in these dynamic, evolving communities. Food webs contain both strong and weak links. Weak links can often be broken with little impact on the community. On the other hand, some species have a disproportionately large effect on the community in which they occur. Called key-stone species, they help to maintain diversity by controlling populations of species that would otherwise come to dominate the community. Or they may provide critical resources for a wide range of species. For example, in the intertidal communities of the Northwest Pacific coast of North America, the starfish Pisaster ochraceus feeds on the small mussel Mytilus californius. Experiments have shown that when the starfish is artificially removed, the population of mussels explodes, soon covering all available space. Other species are crowded out. The interaction between Pisaster and Mytilus helps to maintain the species diversity of these intertidal communities. Research has shown that ecological communities with complex feeding relationships have greater long-term stability and are less affected by external stresses. This suggests an evolutionary basis for the diverse and complex ecological relationships found in many communities of organisms. However, humans often violate this sound ecological principle in order to increase agricultural productivity by creating artificial ecosystems that contain only one plant, such as corn. These systems are called monocultures. While greater agricultural productivity is possible with monoculture crops, they are very unstable ecosystems. Disease, drought, or a new insect pest can easily destroy an entire year's harvest. see also Biomass; Feeding; Feeding Strategies; Trophic Level. Elliot Richmond Curtis, Helena, and N. Sue Barnes. Biology, 5th ed. New York: Worth, 1989. Miller G. Tyler, Jr. Living in the Environment, 6th ed. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth, 1990. Purves, William K., and Gordon H. Orians. Life: The Science of Biology. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 1987.",1.6824231147766113],["All organisms, dead or alive, are potential food sources for other organisms. A caterpillar eats a leaf, a robin eats the caterpillar, a hawk eats the robin. Eventually, the tree and the hawk also die and are consumed by decomposers. Organisms in an ecological community are related to each other through their dependence on other organisms for food. In a food chain a producer is eaten by a herbivore that is in turn eaten by a carnivore. Eventually, the carnivore dies and is eaten by a decomposer. For example, in a lake, phytoplankton are eaten by zooplankton and zooplankton are eaten by small fish. The small fish are eaten by large fish. The large fish eventually die and decompose. Nothing goes to waste. Food chains are channels for the oneway flow of solar energy captured by photosynthesis through the living components of ecosystems. Food chains are also pathways for the recycling of nutrients from producers, through herbivores, carnivores, omnivores, and decomposers, finally returning to the producers. The perfectly linear relations represented by food chains are almost never found in natural ecosystems. Although all organisms have somewhat specialized diets, most can eat a variety of different foods. Thus, each trophic level appears as part of several different interconnected food chains. These food chains combine into highly complex food webs. As with food chains, a food web's source of energy is the sun. The solar energy is harvested by producers such as green plants or algae. These producers are known as autotrophs or photosynthesizing autotrophs. Almost all other organisms obtain their energy, directly or indirectly, from the sun. The exceptions are the communities found around deep ocean thermal vents, which are supported by various bacteria that convert heat energy into stored chemical energy. These bacteria are known as chemotrophs or chemosynthetic autotrophs. Autotrophs are always found at the first trophic level. In an ecosystem this trophic level may include monerans, protists, and several different phyla of plants. They can all be placed at the first trophic level because they all have the same source of energy, and the entire food web depends on the energy harvested by them. For example, in a grazing food web, a herbivore eats living plant tissue and is eaten in turn by an array of carnivores and omnivores. Herbivores and the carnivores that prey on them are known as heterotrophs. In contrast, a detrivore (also a heterotroph) harvests energy from dead organic material and provides energy for a separate food chain. Each step in a food web or food chain involves a transfer of matter and energy (in the form of chemical bonds stored in food) from organism to organism. Thus food webs are energy webs because the relationships represented by connections in the web represent the flow of energy from a group of organisms at one trophic level to another group of organisms at a different level. Because energy is lost (as waste heat) at each step, food chains rarely involve more than four or five steps or trophic levels. At each level the organisms waste much energy in the form of heat generated by normal activity. Only a fraction is stored as food or used for growth. Only about 10 percent of the food entering a link is available for the next organism in the chain. After about five links, there is insufficient energy to support a population of organisms (other than decomposers). For example, in the food chain starting with diatoms and ending with killer whales, only about 0.01 percent of the initial energy stored by the diatoms is delivered to the killer whales. Energy flow through a food web depends greatly on the nature of the producers at the first trophic level. These are usually photosynthetic plants, phytoplankton, or algae. In forest ecosystems, trees are the largest and most abundant organism. They determine the physical structure of the ecosystem, and they can be eaten directly by small or even very large animals. However, much of the matter and energy harvested by the trees goes to build a supporting structure. These supporting structures are composed of cellulose and other wood fibers that are poor sources of energy (although they may be good sources of valuable minerals and other nutrients). In contrast, grasses do not invest much energy in supporting structures, so more energy is available per kilogram of plant material present to the grazers that obtain energy from plants. Consequently, all of the aboveground parts of the grass plants are eaten by herbivores. Energy spreads out through the food web, from the lowest trophic level to the highest. At the \"top of the food chain,\" large carnivores harvest the remaining energy. However, all things eventually die, no matter where they are in the food web, and the dead organic matter accumulates in the soil, lake bottom, or forest floor. This detritus becomes the basis for a completely different ecosystem, the detritus food web. Detritus feeders and decomposers harvest solar energy from the detritus by breaking down the organic material into simpler organic compounds and inorganic compounds. By this process, the matter is recycled and made available for reuse by plants. The detritus food web is vitally important to all ecosystems on Earth. Without it, dead organic matter would accumulate and bury everything. Humans are omnivores. They can operate on several trophic levels, eating plants, insects, mammals, birds, fish, mollusks, and many other organisms. Humans can also shorten the food chain when resources are scarce. In areas of the world where the population may be straining resources, people commonly increase the total food supply by eliminating one or more steps in the food chain. For example, to obtain more energy humans can switch from eating herbivores that obtain their energy from cereal grains to eating the cereal grains themselves. The food web does not tell us everything there is to know about the complex biological communities called ecosystems. Not all relationships are equally important in these dynamic, evolving communities. Food webs contain both strong and weak links. Weak links can often be broken with little impact on the community. On the other hand, some species have a disproportionately large effect on the community in which they occur. Called key-stone species, they help to maintain diversity by controlling populations of species that would otherwise come to dominate the community. Or they may provide critical resources for a wide range of species. For example, in the intertidal communities of the Northwest Pacific coast of North America, the starfish Pisaster ochraceus feeds on the small mussel Mytilus californius. Experiments have shown that when the starfish is artificially removed, the population of mussels explodes, soon covering all available space. Other species are crowded out. The interaction between Pisaster and Mytilus helps to maintain the species diversity of these intertidal communities. Research has shown that ecological communities with complex feeding relationships have greater long-term stability and are less affected by external stresses. This suggests an evolutionary basis for the diverse and complex ecological relationships found in many communities of organisms. However, humans often violate this sound ecological principle in order to increase agricultural productivity by creating artificial ecosystems that contain only one plant, such as corn. These systems are called monocultures. While greater agricultural productivity is possible with monoculture crops, they are very unstable ecosystems. Disease, drought, or a new insect pest can easily destroy an entire year's harvest. see also Biomass; Feeding; Feeding Strategies; Trophic Level. Elliot Richmond Curtis, Helena, and N. Sue Barnes. Biology, 5th ed. New York: Worth, 1989. Miller G. Tyler, Jr. Living in the Environment, 6th ed. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth, 1990. Purves, William K., and Gordon H. Orians. Life: The Science of Biology. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 1987.",1.6824231147766113],["The producers of grazing food chain are green plants. Theses green plants are eaten by herbivorous animals which are further eaten up by carnivorous animals. That show the food chain continues. The source of energy for this food chain is sun and this food chain is capable of adding the energy generated from this food chain, in the ecosystem. Energy which flows in this food chain is of less quantity. Producers occupy the trophic level in this food chain. So precisely, the energy in a grazing web moves from green plants to herbivorous to carnivorous or omnivorous. Theses carnivorous or omnivorous tend to prey on herbivorous. This food chain consist of all the macroscopic organisms.",1.6176998615264893],["If different proportions of animals and prey died, it could upset the balance of the food chain.",1.6045658588409424],["If different proportions of animals and prey died, it could upset the balance of the food chain.",1.6045658588409424],["The sequence of the transfer of food energy from one organism to another in an ecological community. A food chain begins with a producer, usually a green plant or alga that creates its own food through photosynthesis. In the typical predatory food chain, producers are eaten by primary consumers (herbivores) which are eaten by secondary consumers (carnivores), some of which may in turn be eaten by tertiary consumers (the top carnivore in the chain). ◇ Many species of animals in an ecological community feed on both plants and animals and thus play multiple roles in the chain. Parasites feed on living tissues, generally without killing their hosts, and may themselves be hosts to smaller parasites. In addition, organisms that die without being eaten are consumed by detritivores, some of which serve as prey for other consumers. The complex system of interrelated food chains in an environment is known as a food web. See more at trophic level .",1.5759270191192627],["A food chain is sequence of plants, herbivores and carnivores, through which energy and materials move within an ecosystem. Food chains are usually short and not more than three or four links. They usually consist of a producer, a consumer and a predator, with the predator being the top of the food chain. The top of the desert food chain does eventually die though, and is returned to the bottom of the chain as nutrients by decomposes.The energy from the sun is used by the plants, and then the plants feed small animals. The coyote eats these small animals. After the coyote dies its remains go back into the soil, and then the cycle starts all over again.That is where the coyote sits in the food chain.Having the ability to eat anything it can chew, the coyote is a cunning hunter and an opportunistic scavenger. The coyote can run up to 40 mph, and combine its abilities with one or two others when they are running down their prey. Coyotes can eat insects, arachnids, rabbits, deer, big horn sheep, chickens, and sheep. They also may eat household pets such as cats and dogs.Old predators of the coyote were the grizzly and black bears; mountain lions; and wolves, but because their populations have gone down, they aren't as big a threat anymore.Depredation, killing coyotes because they are harmful, has become common in ranching areas. Ranchers fear for their wildlife. Also, since the coyote's fur has become so valuable, man became their main predator. They are scared of us, because we are the dominant species. Also, another reason is that we can eat almost anything we want, including them.",1.5311083793640137],["A food chain is sequence of plants, herbivores and carnivores, through which energy and materials move within an ecosystem. Food chains are usually short and not more than three or four links. They usually consist of a producer, a consumer and a predator, with the predator being the top of the food chain. The top of the desert food chain does eventually die though, and is returned to the bottom of the chain as nutrients by decomposes.The energy from the sun is used by the plants, and then the plants feed small animals. The coyote eats these small animals. After the coyote dies its remains go back into the soil, and then the cycle starts all over again.That is where the coyote sits in the food chain.Having the ability to eat anything it can chew, the coyote is a cunning hunter and an opportunistic scavenger. The coyote can run up to 40 mph, and combine its abilities with one or two others when they are running down their prey. Coyotes can eat insects, arachnids, rabbits, deer, big horn sheep, chickens, and sheep. They also may eat household pets such as cats and dogs.Old predators of the coyote were the grizzly and black bears; mountain lions; and wolves, but because their populations have gone down, they aren't as big a threat anymore.Depredation, killing coyotes because they are harmful, has become common in ranching areas. Ranchers fear for their wildlife. Also, since the coyote's fur has become so valuable, man became their main predator. They are scared of us, because we are the dominant species. Also, another reason is that we can eat almost anything we want, including them.",1.5311083793640137],["When humans eat carrion- or prey- eating animals, they are partaking of a \" \nfood chain\" which includes things harmful to humans.",1.5183686017990112],["(pause, then call on several students for responses) GLOSSARY: abiotic factors - nonliving factors, including water, oxygen, light, temperature, soil, and inorganic and organic nutrients autotrophs - organisms that can make all the organic nutrients they need from inorganic compounds biomass - mass of organisms biosphere - the portion of the earth in which living things exist biotic factors - living factors including all the living organisms in the environment and their effects, both direct and indirect, on other living things \ncarnivores - animals that feed only on other animals commensalism - one organism benefits from a symbiotic relationship and the other is not affected consumers - heterotrophs that must obtain nutrients from other organisms decomposers - break down the remains of plants and animals, releasing substances that can be used by other members of the ecosystem ecosystem - includes a community and its physical environment food chain - a series of organisms through which food energy is passed food web - food chains interconnected at various points forming a food web herbivores - animals that feed only on plants heterotrophs - organisms that cannot make their own nutrients latitude - distance north or south of the equator omnivores - animals that feed an both plants and animals mutualism - both organisms benefit from their association parasitism - one organism benefits from a symbiotic relationship while the other is harmed population - all individuals of a particular species within a certain area predators - attach and kill their prey and feed on their bodies producers - autotrophs that can produce their own nutrients from inorganic compounds pyramid of energy - amount of available energy in an ecosystem saprophytes - organisms that obtain nutrients by breaking down remains of dead plants and animal scavengers - feed on dead animals they find symbiotic relationships - two organisms living in close association and benefit at least one of them RESOURCES: FILMS/VIDEO TAPES: Cycles in Nature: Food Webs Ecological Cycles Succession: Ways Ecosystems Change -three sound filmstrips from National Geographic This is the 3960th time this file has been accessed since 11/16/96.",1.499118685722351],["Discuss with the class the fact that some wild animals eat only plants and some prey upon other animals to survive.  When wild animals eat plants and in turn are eaten by other animals this is part of a food chain.",1.4855232238769531],["At the base of the food chain lies the primary producers . Primary producers are principally green plants and certain bacteria. They convert solar energy into organic energy. Above the primary producers are the consumers who ingest live plants or the prey of others. Decomposers , such as, bacteria, molds, and fungi make use of energy stored in already dead plant and animal tissues. Fungi, like mushrooms, absorb nutrients from the organisms by secreting enzymes to break up the chemical compounds that make up dead plants and animals.",1.483012318611145],["Food webs provide a framework within which a complex network of predator–prey interactions can be organised. A food web model is a network of food chains . Each food chain starts with a primary producer or autotroph , an organism, such as a plant, which is able to manufacture its own food. Next in the chain is an organism that feeds on the primary producer, and the chain continues in this way as a string of successive predators. The organisms in each chain are grouped into trophic levels , based on how many links they are removed from the primary producers. The length of the chain, or trophic level, is a measure of the number of species encountered as energy or nutrients move from plants to top predators. [48] Food energy flows from one organism to the next and to the next and so on, with some energy being lost at each level. At a given trophic level there may be one species or a group of species with the same predators and prey. [49]",1.4689632654190063],["In the food web, energy is transferred from one living organism through another in the form of food. The Pandas food wed is divided into three sections, primary producers, primary consumers, secondary consumers and decomposers- all part of the food chain. Photosynthesis is the beginnings of the food web it produces the energy to help plants grow, which are the primary producers. The Panda comes under the secondary consumer, as it uses photosynthesis to produce its food – Bamboo. Cubs become a prey to other animals such as Leopards and tigers, which are known as the primary consumer. However adults intimidate other predators because of their great size. Decomposers such as worms, mushrooms, flies and maggots break down dead plants and animals.",1.468337893486023],["Speaking of reading, I also have these word wall cards that have the following terms: habitat, organism, producer, herbivore, carnivore, omnivore, consumer, food chain, food web, scavenger, decomposer, predator, prey, energy, and photosynthesis. This illustrated word wall set is perfect for helping your students to remember the spelling and meanings of key food chain and food web terms. I used cute but realistic clip art of animals, plants, and micro-organisms. Some of the clip art used were created by Oxana at  Teacher’s Clipart . Here's a preview (below) of one of the word wall cards - the food chain card. This one shows the words 'food chain' along with an actual food chain starting with a leaf that is by a caterpillar which is eaten by a bird which is eaten by a snake. Wait till you see the food web card. Yikes! You can click here  (TpT) or here (Teachers Notebook) to see more sample pictures of this set.",1.4593212604522705],["species trying to share the same food source. Here is a simple food chain. Energy passes along the chain in the direction of the arrow. plankton... shrimp herring cat Some animals and fish are herbivores, and eat only plants, others are omnivores and can eat both plants and animals. Carnivores eat only animals and scavengers eat whatever they can find – sometimes even dead animals. An animal which lives by killing and eating other animals is called a predator. An animal is prey when another...",1.4414193630218506],["In a grazing food chain, energy and nutrients move from plants to the herbivores consuming them, and to the carnivores or omnivores preying upon the herbivores.",1.4384537935256958],["Food Chain Solitaire&quot; is a game something like Solitaire which has the language learner identifying predator/prey relationships among animals, insects, and plants.",1.427120327949524],["\"Food Chain Solitaire\" is a game something like Solitaire which has the language learner identifying predator/prey relationships among animals, insects, and plants.",1.427120327949524],["Food webs can help illustrate the balance of trophs in an environment and help pinpoint potential dangers from extinction or overpopulation. When any given population in the food web becomes too large or too small, it endangers the balance of the entire system. When predators near the top of the food chain are hunted, it can allow the animals they prey on to explode in number, putting stress on prey animals further down the chain. The food web can also identify potential replacement prey, illustrating how even when one organism is removed entirely from the equation, the others adapt to its loss and establish a new food web.",1.4153895378112793],["A food web is a complex structure that includes all of the food chains in an ecosystem. Prairies, or grasslands, are found in North America, Africa, South America and Asia. Food webs show groups of animals that have the same predators and prey in an ecosystem. Predators are carnivores that feed on other organisms, and prey are the animals that are eaten. Heterotrophs are classified into three groups: namely, herbivores, carnivores, or decomposers, which are organisms that break down plant and animal matter.",1.4106119871139526],["In a food chain, prey is the organism that is eaten up by a bigger animal (example: In example diagram-1 butterfly is a prey that is eaten by lizards).",1.3976432085037231],["In a food chain, prey is the organism that is eaten up by a bigger animal (example: In example diagram-1 butterfly is a prey that is eaten by lizards).",1.3976432085037231],["The above food web describes how all the major categories of organism can work to together in an ecosystem. First let’s describe the producers, these are plants and trees the produce energy into the ecosystem. Next the consumer, there are three different types herbivores (deer), carnivores (birds), and omnivores (bears). Then the last category is decomposers, which happen to be like a consumer but they feed off animal dropping and dead organisms. This way it can break down and return the nutrients to the soil. They all complete a cycle which in returns works with the ecosystem making it stronger. With the human population growing they put a potential hazard of killing and damaging the areas. This would then create chaos in the ecosystem, which could cause the food chain to change. Some of the abiotic factors present in this ecosystem as of today are rocks, water, sunlight, wind, and temperature. According to the food chain for the ecosystem in which I have selected, one of the animals in it was a lynx. Lynx eat small prey such as rabbits, fish, mice, and various types of birds. They are prayed on by eagles and owls; also wolves coyotes and cougars. Since the lynx has lived in a temperate forest it has adapted it fur in the winter. Also they have over the years gotten longer legs and larger feet have to hurt better in the snow. The temperate forest is home to many organisms, the web above allowed me to analyze and helped me understand the principles of ecology and how the interactions of different organism can create a biodiversity ecosystem.",1.3824366331100464],["Some consumers are predators; they hunt, catch, kill, and eat other animals, the prey. The prey animal tries to avoid being eaten by hiding, fleeing, or defending itself using various adaptations and strategies. These could be the camouflage of an octopus or a fawn, the fast speed of a jackrabbit or impala, or the sting of a bee or spines of a sea urchin. If the prey is not successful, it becomes a meal and energy source for the predator. If the prey is successful and eludes its predator, the predator must expend precious energy to continue the hunt elsewhere. Predators can also be prey, depending on what part of the food chain you are looking at. For example, a trout acts as a predator when it eats insects, but it is prey when it is eaten by a bear. It all depends on the specific details of the interaction. Ecologists use other specific names that describe what type of food a consumer eats: carnivores and herbivores are meat eaters and plant eaters, respectively. Omnivores eat both animals and plants. Once again, knowing the Latin root helps a lot:  \"vor\" means \"to eat or devour,\" as in \"voracious.” Put \"-vore\" at the end of a scientific term for a kind of food, and you have described what an organism eats. For example, an insectivore is a carnivore that eats insects, and a frugivore is an herbivore that eats fruit. This may seem like a lot of terminology, but it helps scientists communicate and immediately understand a lot about a particular type of organism by using the precise terms.",1.377091407775879],["Most carnivores are not obligate carnivores. A hypercarnivore is an organism that depends on animals for at least 70 percent of its diet. Plants, fungi, and other nutrients make up the rest of their food. All obligate carnivores, including cats, are hypercarnivores. Sea star s, which prey mostly on clams and oysters, are also hypercarnivores.",1.3750468492507935],["“The ability of spiders to derive nutrients from plant materials is broadening the food base of these animals,” Nyffeler says. “This might be one of several survival mechanisms helping spiders to stay alive for a while during periods when insect prey is scarce.”",1.3702659606933594],["When predators near the top of the food chain are hunted, it can allow the animals they prey on to explode in number, putting stress on prey animals further down the chain.",1.3582830429077148],["Identify and illustrate the various food chains and food webs and predator-prey relationships that exist among the plants and animals living in a terrarium.",1.3509387969970703],["Sea turtle food chain diagram illustrate.the energy flow among organisms of a food chain in a particular ecosystem Parrot Fish – Consumer/Prey 2. Green Sea Turtle – Consumer/Prey (Barracuda) (Tiger Shark) 18. Algae – Producer 3.For example, off the coast of Washington, sea lions and fishermen both want to catch salmon. This leads to competition between the two groups. 20 Review Question #4 The diagram below shows a food chain Which is a decomposer? A A food chain symbolizes the path of energy within an ecosystem Some possible examples documented in a 2009 Bioscience paper include increased predation on sea turtle eggs in Florida by ghost crabs when raccoons, which eat both What is a food chain? A food chain is a diagram of animals prey and predator. Food chains",1.3306955099105835],["Predator vs. Prey relates to real life because in the food chain there are predators that prey on small animals. Predator vs. prey is just like that. the smaller animals such as small birds, worms, rodents, and insects get eaten by larger animals such as snakes. then at the top of the food chain are the hawks which eat all the other animals in the food chain. Then, eventually, the hawks die to be continued tbc",1.326758623123169],["Gut loading is the process by which an animal's prey is raised and fed nutritious foods with the intention of passing those nutrients to the animal for which the prey is intended.",1.3236881494522095],["Animals get their energy from food. Herbivores, like deer and hare, feed on plants. Carnivores, like lions and wolves, eat meat. Omnivores, which include pigs, bears, and humans, eat both plants and animals. In an ecosystem, all the organisms that depend on one another in order to eat form a food chain. Plants are at the bottom of this chain. They get their energy from the sun, which allows them to manufacture the substances they need for their development. Most animals depend directly or indirectly on plants. In this way, even carnivores that feed on herbivores depend on the plants that feed their prey.",1.300883173942566],["A chipmunk eats nuts for food. A lizard eats chipmunks for food. Which animal is the prey in this food chain?",1.2995065450668335],["A food chain is a diagram of animals prey and predator.",1.2966200113296509],["The llama is an animal of flight as they are prey on the food chain.",1.2966200113296509],["The carbon and energy incorporated into plant tissues (net primary production) is either consumed by animals while the plant is alive, or it remains uneaten when the plant tissue dies and becomes detritus . In terrestrial ecosystems , roughly 90% of the NPP ends up being broken down by decomposers . The remainder is either consumed by animals while still alive and enters the plant-based trophic system, or it is consumed after it has died, and enters the detritus-based trophic system. In aquatic systems , the proportion of plant biomass that gets consumed by herbivores is much higher. [18] In trophic systems photosynthetic organisms are the primary producers. The organisms that consume their tissues are called primary consumers or secondary producers — herbivores . Organisms which feed on microbes ( bacteria and fungi ) are termed microbivores . Animals that feed on primary consumers— carnivores —are secondary consumers. Each of these constitutes a trophic level . [18] The sequence of consumption—from plant to herbivore, to carnivore—forms a food chain . Real systems are much more complex than this—organisms will generally feed on more than one form of food, and may feed at more than one trophic level. Carnivores may capture some prey which are part of a plant-based trophic system and others that are part of a detritus-based trophic system (a bird that feeds both on herbivorous grasshoppers and earthworms, which consume detritus). Real systems, with all these complexities, form food webs rather than food chains. [18]",1.293444037437439],["The carbon and energy incorporated into plant tissues (net primary production) is either consumed by animals while the plant is alive, or it remains uneaten when the plant tissue dies and becomes detritus . In terrestrial ecosystems , roughly 90% of the NPP ends up being broken down by decomposers . The remainder is either consumed by animals while still alive and enters the plant-based trophic system, or it is consumed after it has died, and enters the detritus-based trophic system. In aquatic systems , the proportion of plant biomass that gets consumed by herbivores is much higher. [18] In trophic systems photosynthetic organisms are the primary producers. The organisms that consume their tissues are called primary consumers or secondary producers — herbivores . Organisms which feed on microbes ( bacteria and fungi ) are termed microbivores . Animals that feed on primary consumers— carnivores —are secondary consumers. Each of these constitutes a trophic level . [18] The sequence of consumption—from plant to herbivore, to carnivore—forms a food chain . Real systems are much more complex than this—organisms will generally feed on more than one form of food, and may feed at more than one trophic level. Carnivores may capture some prey which are part of a plant-based trophic system and others that are part of a detritus-based trophic system (a bird that feeds both on herbivorous grasshoppers and earthworms, which consume detritus). Real systems, with all these complexities, form food webs rather than food chains. [18]",1.293444037437439],["I found this food chain game and thought it was really nicely organized in demonstrated different types of food webs, such as the marine chain and mixed chain. When you get the wrong animal in a place, it bounces back so kids can try with other animal to place the right animal in the right place of food web. Also, when children get the food web right at the end, the animation of animal eating their prey is shown, which provide more interest to the children. You should try this on your own first and see how it is!",1.2839540243148804],["All energy starts from the sun, which provides food energy for plants G Generation - the process of producing something H Habitat - the region and environment where a plant or animal naturally lives Herbivore - an animal that feeds chiefly on grass or other plants Hydroelectric Energy Chain - the process by which electrical energy generated from water is delivered to the consumer Hydroelectric Power/Hydroelectricity - the production of electricity through the power of falling water M Manufacture - the making of goods, especially by machinery and on a large scale Meter - an instrument used to measure and record the quantity of electricity passing through it N Natural Resource - a form of wealth supplied by nature, such as land, minerals, water, etc. Nutrients - substances that are necessary to life and growth O Omnivore - an animal that eats both animal and vegetable food Organic Matter - matter that is derived from living organisms P Photosynthesis - the production of organic substances, especially sugars, from carbon dioxide and water by the action of light (from the sun) on the chlorophyll in green plant cells Predators - animals that prey on other animals R Reservoir - the lake or body of stored water formed by a dam Resource - something that lies ready for use or can be drawn upon for aid Rights-of-way - a cleared pathway for electric transmission S Solar Radiation - heat energy sent out from the sun Spawn - to produce or deposit;",1.281571626663208],["phic and unable to produce their own food, they are not at the bottom of the food web.  Instead, they feed on animals that consume other animals or they feed on animals that consume other types of organisms, such as plants.  They usually prefer to feed on small, warm-blooded mammals, which makes them great contributors to the control of rodent populations within the environment. Though timber rattlesnakes are not at the bottom of the food chain, they are also not at the top.  In fact, C. horridus is preyed upon and consumed by many other animals, such as coyotes, foxes, raccoons, opossums, cats (domesticated and feral), eagles, hawks , owls , turkeys, and even other snakes.  These snakes however, are much larger, like the king snake.  Unfortunately, timber rattlesnakes are also hunted and killed by humans for various reasons.  By acting as both a predator and prey, timber rattlesnakes play a major ecological role within their environment to help maintain the \"balance of nature\".",1.2797856330871582],["In the African savannah, if an animal is not at the top of the food chain or the food web, then the animal has a lot to do while it is feeding as there are always other animals of prey which are ready to attack with lightning speed when these animals of prey are not suspecting but are busy eating or just drinking water in the rivers lakes or ponds.",1.2786757946014404],["Predator Any animal or plant that preys on animals for food.",1.2727174758911133],["Food chain: A sequence of organisms through which energy is transferred from its ultimate source in a green plant; the predator-prey pathway in which each organism eats the next link below and is eaten by the next link above.",1.268438458442688],["Food chain: A sequence of organisms through which energy is transferred from its ultimate source in a green plant; the predator-prey pathway in which each organism eats the next link below and is eaten by the next link above.",1.268438458442688]]