[["A specialized type of cell division which reduces the chromosome number by half. This process occurs in all sexually reproducing eukaryotes (both single-celled and multicellular) including animals, plants, and fungi. DNA replicates itself into two diploids and those two diploids separate into two haploids. Process whereby gametes are produced.",1.6900876760482788],["    Multicellular Groups:  Oedogonium reproduces both sexually and asexually.  Sexually, the Oedogonium produces an egg within another egg which is called oogonium.  The antherida produces a sperm which enters the antheridia and fertilizes the egg.  It results in a zygote, which forms a hard protective wall and can remain inactive for several months.  Before the zygote's wall breaks open meiosis occurs and four flagellate zoospores are formed.  Asexually, it forms a single cell, multiflagellate zoospore within a cell;  Spirogyra is a multicellular green alga that grows in freshwater pools.  Its cells form a  slender filament that look transparent.  Each of the chloroplasts, within the filament, contain a small protein body called a pyrenoid, which stores starch.  Spirogyra can reproduce asexually in two ways. The cells can go through binary fusion which causes the filament to grow lengthwise.  If the filament is broken it grows on its own.  This process helps disperse the algae.  The sexual reproduction of Spirogyra involves the process of conjugation.  Two filaments form connecting tubes and the content of one cell flows into the other.  The wall thickens around the zygote forming a zygospore that can survive harsh conditions;  Ulothrix is a filament that can reproduce sexually and asexually.  When  it reproduces sexually, it produces 8-64 isogametes inside a cell.  Each of the gametes have two flagella, which help them swim together and unite when released from the mother cell.  When the cells unite, they form a zygote which later becomes a zygospore.  Asexually, The Ulothrix reproduces by forming 4-8 zoospores in a cell.  The zoospore contains 4 flagella which help them swim away to form new colonies; Ulva is most commonly known as sea lettuce.  It has a life cycle that involves two distinct forms of the organism.  The two forms may look alike, but they are genetically different.  One of the forms is haploid (meaning they have [n] chromosomes).  The haploid form of the organism is called gametophyte because it produces gametes.  When two gametes fuse they form a diploid zygote.  All of the cells that are developed form that zygote are diploid. The resulting diploid form is called a sporophyte because its cells undergo meiosis and therefore will produce spores.  Each haploid spore will develop into a haploid gametophyte.  The alteration between the sporophyte and the gametophyte stages in the life cycle is called alteration of generations.  All plants and many types of algae go through this process of alteration of generations.  This life cycle is widespread because it has great survival value.  The species benefit from the recombination of parents' traits through the fusion of gametes and from the opportunity to reproduce by the less risky process of forming spores.  The gametophytes and the sporophytes look identical in this specie, but in other plants, the two forms may look very different.",1.6017431020736694],["Simple plants like algae may have short life spans as individuals, but their populations are commonly seasonal. Other plants may be organized according to their seasonal growth pattern: annual plants live and reproduce within one growing season , biennial plants live for two growing seasons and usually reproduce in second year, and perennial plants live for many growing seasons and continue to reproduce once they are mature. These designations often depend on climate and other environmental factors; plants that are annual in alpine or temperate regions can be biennial or perennial in warmer climates. Among the vascular plants, perennials include both evergreens that keep their leaves the entire year, and deciduous plants which lose their leaves for some part of it. In temperate and boreal climates , they generally lose their leaves during the winter; many tropical plants lose their leaves during the dry season .",1.486291527748108],["A manager’s knowledge of the processes by which a plant completes its life cycle (germinates, grows, reproduces, and dies) can help identify vulnerable life stages and determine the best timing for control.",1.4830354452133179],["Plants grow through life stages and reproduce to survive.",1.480359435081482],["Plants grow through life stages and reproduce to survive.",1.480359435081482],["The minor requires four courses representing all three levels in the biology curriculum (100, 200, and 300), as well as two supporting courses (one in social sciences or humanities, and one with a statistical focus) The minor in Integrative Biology focuses on the mechanisms by which organisms regulate life processes, grow and develop, reproduce, and behave.",1.4721145629882812],["These contaminants may infect plant or animal life including human beings, or reduce their ability to grow and reproduce.",1.465301513671875],["This process occurs in all sexually reproducing eukaryotes (both single-celled and multicellular) including animals, plants, and fungi.",1.4394804239273071],["This process occurs in all sexually reproducing eukaryotes (both single-celled and multicellular) including animals, plants, and fungi.",1.4394804239273071],["Each of these two organisms requires the other to grow and reproduce, a process that occurs within the insect.",1.4206788539886475],["The life cycle of plants depends upon the alternation of generations, the fluctuation between the diploid (sporophyte) and haploid (gametophyte) life stages. Reproduction in most plants can occur both sexually and asexually. In sexual reproduction, fertilization occurs when a male gamete (sperm cell) joins with an egg cell to produce a zygote. In gymnosperms and angiosperms (the seed plants), the ovule containing the egg cell becomes a seed after fertilization has occurred. In angiosperms (flowering plants), the embryo is given added protection by an ovary, which develops into a fruit. Plants can also reproduce asexually through vegetative propagation, a process in which plants produce genetically identical offshoots (clones) of themselves, which then develop into independent plants. This asexual means of reproduction can occur naturally through specialized structures such as tubers, runners, and bulbs or artificially through grafting.",1.409428596496582],["The life cycle of plants depends upon the alternation of generations, the fluctuation between the diploid (sporophyte) and haploid (gametophyte) life stages. Reproduction in most plants can occur both sexually and asexually. In sexual reproduction, fertilization occurs when a male gamete (sperm cell) joins with an egg cell to produce a zygote. In gymnosperms and angiosperms (the seed plants), the ovule containing the egg cell becomes a seed after fertilization has occurred. In angiosperms (flowering plants), the embryo is given added protection by an ovary, which develops into a fruit. Plants can also reproduce asexually through vegetative propagation, a process in which plants produce genetically identical offshoots (clones) of themselves, which then develop into independent plants. This asexual means of reproduction can occur naturally through specialized structures such as tubers, runners, and bulbs or artificially through grafting.",1.409428596496582],[" Giant kelp is a perennial (i.e. it lives for several years) while bull kelp is an annual (i.e. it completes its life cycle in one year). Both types of kelp have a two-stage life cycle. They exist in their earliest life stages as spores, released with millions of others from the parent kelp, the sporophyte. The spores grow into a tiny male or female plant called a gametophyte, which produces either sperm or eggs. After fertilization occurs, the embryos may grow into mature plants (sporophytes), completing the life cycle.",1.4044885635375977],["Mitosis and Meiosis: Two Different Forms of Reproduction - In order for ecosystem to continue growing, reproduction has to occur whether it is sexually, asexually, or both. “Reproduction, one of the basic characteristics of all life forms, may be accomplished by two forms of cell division, Mitosis or Meiosis” (Freeman). A cell can occur sexually by the process of Meiosis. The cell must have a stage that is diploid to be able to undergo meiosis. A cell can also occur by the process of Mitosis. Some species in our ecosystem have the ability to reproduce both sexually and asexually at different times in its lifecycle, such as the bread slime mold called Rhizopus....   [tags: biology, microbiology]",1.3990542888641357],["Mitosis and Meiosis: Two Different Forms of Reproduction - In order for ecosystem to continue growing, reproduction has to occur whether it is sexually, asexually, or both. “Reproduction, one of the basic characteristics of all life forms, may be accomplished by two forms of cell division, Mitosis or Meiosis” (Freeman). A cell can occur sexually by the process of Meiosis. The cell must have a stage that is diploid to be able to undergo meiosis. A cell can also occur by the process of Mitosis. Some species in our ecosystem have the ability to reproduce both sexually and asexually at different times in its lifecycle, such as the bread slime mold called Rhizopus....   [tags: biology, microbiology]",1.3990542888641357],["All of the bacteria and other simple life forms reproduce asexually which is where the genetic material copies itself and then each copy goes into the two new organisms. Most plants can reproduce asexually because they have both male and female reproductive organs (Cohen Daniel 9-10). ... Humans in a way can reproduce asexually identical twins are by&#32...",1.3913320302963257],["The process is later enhanced with the remains of plant life which grows on the island.",1.3883463144302368],["1. Green algae are part of the Kingdom Protista. What is the main difference between plants and most green algae? A. Plants contain chlorophyll. B. Plants are all unicellular. C. Plants are all multicellular. D. Plants are adapted to life in the water. 2. Which of the following adaptations evolved in land plants? A. Production of seeds B. Thin leaves C. Absence of a vascular system D. Presence of chlorophyll 3. Which of the following is the most recent adaptation that helped land plants increase their success? A. Roots B. Flowers C. Stems D. Leaves 4. Seed plants do not rely on standing water to reproduce. They rely on A. protective coats. B. vascular systems. C. pollination. D. embryos. 5. One group of seedless nonvascular plants often plays a key role in the earliest stages of primary succession. These are the A. liverworts. B. hornworts. C. mosses. D. ferns. 6. Coal is the fossilized remains of ancient A. seedless nonvascular plants. B. nonvascular seed plants. C. seedless vascular plants. D. flowering plants. 7. Which answer choice describes the direction in which the vascular system likely transports sugars? A. A to B only B. A to C only C. A to B and C D. C to A and B 8. Pollination occurs when pollen meets A. male reproductive parts of a different plant species. B. male reproductive parts of the same plant species. C. female reproductive parts of a different plant species. D. female reproductive parts of the same plant species. 9. Seed plants whose seeds are not enclosed in fruit are A. gymnosperms. B. angiosperms. C. ferns. D. flowering plants. 10. Fleshy fruits often play a role in seed dispersal when they are A. blown by the wind. B. carried by insects. C. eaten and discarded by animals. D. washed away by water. 11. How many seed leaves do dicots have? A. 1 B. 2 C. 3 D. 4 12. Trees and most other woody plants are A. annuals. B. biennials. C. perennials. D. herbaceous. 13. The study of plants is called A. botany. B. ethnobotany. C. agriculture. D. culture. 14. In the past, spices were sometimes used as A. lumber. B. paper. C. animal feed. D. currency. 15. How long ago did people start using plant products as medicines? A. About 10 years ago B. About 100 years ago C. About 500 years ago D. Thousands of years ago 16. Most plants are distinguishable from other organisms because they A. are multicellular and eukaryotes. B. produce their own food and are adapted to life on land. C. have chlorophyll and use it for photosynthesis. D. use starch to store energy and have cell walls. 17. Which of the following adaptations increased success for land plants? A. Ability to grow close to the ground B. Ability to grow in standing water C. Production of chlorophyll D. Production of fruit 18. Seedless nonvascular plants include A. club mosses and ferns. B. mosses, liverworts, and hornworts. C. conifers and flowering plants. D. cycads, ginkgoes, and conifers. 19. As part of the reproductive process, both gymnosperms and angiosperms produce A. seeds enclosed in fruit. B. sperm that swim through water. C. pollen and seeds. D. male and female cones. 20. Two adaptations that have helped all flowering plants succeed are A. herbaceous stems and woody stems. B. flowers and fruit. C. monocots and dicots. D. cones and flowers. 21. Plants that do not contain wood are known as A. annual plants. B. biennial plants. C. herbaceous plants. D. woody plants. 22. A flowering plant that lives for more than two years is a(n) A. annual. B. biennial. C. triennial D. perennial. 23. One major benefit of farming is A. being able to gather food. B. improved hunting prospects. C. a more reliable food supply. D. not being tied to one area. 24. Which of the following statements is NOT true? A. Many of the drugs used today are derived from plants. B. Plants have remained the same since humans began cultivating them. C. Plant products have always been an important part of the economy. D. Humans rely on plant-based products on a daily basi. 25. Some alkaloids can be used to treat cancer because they A. are toxic in all doses. B. act as an anesthetic. C. interfere with cell division. D. speed up cell division.",1.3801188468933105],["Some phytoplankton reproduce sexually, when two specialized reproduction cells fuse (similar to reproduction in humans). This occurs two different ways: with two cells from the same phytoplankton (seen in plankton called monoecious) or with two cells from two different phytoplankton (in plankton called dioecious). The two cells fuse during the fertilization process. For simpler forms of phytoplankton, the simple fusion process produces a zygospore. In more advanced types of phytoplankton, the more complicated fusion process produces a zygote. Both the zygospore and the zygote then grow into mature phytoplankton.",1.3781650066375732],["A cutting from a plant would take root and grow, reproducing that from which it was taken, without any sexual process.",1.3612072467803955],["The basic form of life is found in plants, which feed themselves, grow, decay and reproduce.",1.3541640043258667],["The basic form of life is found in plants, which feed themselves, grow, decay and reproduce.",1.3541640043258667],["Reproducing is the process in which a species can create more of itself. It allows the genes of an organism to be passed down through generation. In order to ensure the continuation of any species in the future generations, they must reproduce. For example, if the last two lion fishes on Earth dies and does not reproduce then they will be the last of its kind and it will be lost in history. This is one of the major reasons as to why reproduction is needed in life. If any species can reproduce successfully then their legacy will be retained through their off-springs. Therefore, if a species does not reproduce then their extinction will occur. However, for reproductive success to take place, there has to be a result of both ways to produce off-springs, Sexual and Asexual.",1.3534601926803589],["Sexual reproduction requires sex with two parents to create genetically diverse off-springs. For example, animals, plants, fungi and protists all reproduce sexually giving 1/2 of DNA (23 chromosomes or haploid) from each parent to the off-springs, which is called Meiosis. The process in Meiosis results in 4 haploids. The donation of the mixed genes to the offspring from both parents is called fertilization. This process consists with an egg from a woman and a sperm from the man. Once the sperm reaches the egg in the fallopian tube, fertilization occurs and creates a zygote, a fertilized ovum that then forms an embryo which is an unhatched offspring in the process of forming. Finally, the offspring procures a balanced amount of genetic material from each of the parents and then begins to grow. ",1.3368632793426514],["Lindens, like many trees can reproduce asexually through a process called propagation. Propagation means that humans cut a part of the tree off and plant it so that it grows roots and begins a new tree. Certain trees like navel oranges which have no seeds can only reproduce this way.",1.3354463577270508],["Although daffodils mostly reproduce sexually they can also produce asexually when a second plant is not around. The flower contains both the pistil and stamen for reproduction. Daffodils grow from bulbs, which can grow one daffodil or split into two and create two separate daffodil plants. If a daffodil is not in a near proximity of another daffodil, the plant will produce a cluster of flowers, but the flowers cannot scatter themselves, so they stay bundled together. These daughter plants often stay coupled with the mother plant, making it difficult to differentiate between groupings of plants and one singular plant. [4] Commercial daffodil growers will use a process called chipping where the harvester will chip off pieces from a single bulb into up to thirty pieces which will grow back into full bulbs. Often a gardener will attempt to cross divide divisions of daffodils by moving pollen by hand, since the natural cross pollination does not happen often. [5]",1.3261606693267822],["The life cycle of a fern is beautiful and complex, but with a little study, you can understand it. Start with number 1 below, the spore. This is like the seed of a flowering plant, in that it is the way the fern reproduces and spreads. A spore, however, is different in that it is a single cell that has only one copy of each chromosome (haploid), and a seed is multicellular and has two (diploid). The spore develops into a plant called a gametophyte that can produce both sperm and eggs. These unite in the processes called fertilization, producing a \"baby\" fern called a zygote, which now has two copies of each chromosome (it is diploid). By normal cell division, this grows into the fern as we know it, the green leafy plant on the forest floor. The fern produces the spore (still diploid), and the cycle continues.",1.3232375383377075],["8 Adapting to the Environment Chapter 3 – Section 2 Plants have two stages in their life cycle—the sporophyte and gametophyte. Sporophyte stage: plants make spores, which is a reproductive cell, which grows (divide) into a gametophyte. Diploid-both sets of chromosomes. Gametophyte: female gametophyte produce eggs and male gametophytes produce sperm. Must unite to sexually reproduce. Haploid-one set of chromosomes. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MQiszdkOwuU",1.3225456476211548],["A manager’s knowledge of the processes by which a plant completes its life cycle (germinates, grows, reproduces, and dies) can help identify vulnerable life stages and determine the best timing for control. It is also important to know when native or desired plants are vulnerable so that control methods can be used in a way that will not cause injury.",1.3220611810684204],["This process can occur though fragmentation in which a whole new plant can grow from a severed plant.",1.3160701990127563],["Plants either reproduce sexually or asexually. Sexual reproduction is accomplished in plants basically the same way it occurs in humans. A sperm (pollen formed in the anther) fertilizes the egg( in the ovary) this creates the formation of the seed which is actually the next generation even before sprouting. Plants which reproduce asexually usually accomplish this via a rhizome. The rhizome is an underground root like structure in which baby plants grow off of. Some trees reproduce asexually when they fall over and sprouts begin to grow out of the resulting nurse log. Asexual reproduction produces individuals identical genetically to the mother.",1.3115289211273193],["Plants either reproduce sexually or asexually. Sexual reproduction is accomplished in plants basically the same way it occurs in humans. A sperm (pollen formed in the anther) fertilizes the egg( in the ovary) this creates the formation of the seed which is actually the next generation even before sprouting. Plants which reproduce asexually usually accomplish this via a rhizome. The rhizome is an underground root like structure in which baby plants grow off of. Some trees reproduce asexually when they fall over and sprouts begin to grow out of the resulting nurse log. Asexual reproduction produces individuals identical genetically to the mother.",1.3115289211273193],["Plants either reproduce sexually or asexually. Sexual reproduction is accomplished in plants basically the same way it occurs in humans. A sperm (pollen formed in the an…ther) fertilizes the egg( in the ovary) this creates the formation of the seed which is actually the next generation even before sprouting. Plants which reproduce asexually usually accomplish this via a rhizome. The rhizome is an underground root like structure in which baby plants grow off of. Some trees reproduce asexually when they fall over and sprouts begin to grow out of the resulting nurse log. Asexual reproduction produces individuals identical genetically to the mother.",1.3115289211273193],["Plants, much like human beings and animals, require water, air, food, light, and warmth in order to perform these essential physiological processes and, as a result, to grow and reproduce.",1.2883015871047974],["This video shows the process in which a tulip plant grows. It also defines photosynthesis and explains why it is important that the process of photosynthesis occurs.",1.2880027294158936],["The life cycle of a lily flower begins with a seed. Once mature, the plant reproduces by growing a flower, which is the sexual part of the plant that produces seeds.",1.2854580879211426],["Artificial Life - computer organisms that reproduce and adapt to their environment, mimicking the natural selection process which occurs with biological organisms.",1.279222011566162],["Artificial Life - computer organisms that reproduce and adapt to their environment, mimicking the natural selection process which occurs with biological organisms.",1.279222011566162],["He discussed the process of apomixis, which is a process enabling plants to reproduce asexually so that its seeds will grow into exact genetic copies, or clones, of the parent.",1.2670618295669556],["Plants reproduce by making seeds from which new plants can grow.",1.266431212425232],["Plants reproduce by making seeds from which new plants can grow.",1.266431212425232],["- that which the plant uses to reproduce its life.",1.264628529548645],["\"All forms of life - from simple to complex - share an ability and instinct to reproduce. Reproduction occurs either sexually through an exchange of genetic material between two organisms, or asexually where organisms replicate offspring with an identical genetic makeup to their parent. This program looks at sexual and asexual reproduction, starting at the cellular level, with clear explanations of meiosis and mitosis. The various benefits and disadvantages of both types of reproduction are examined, as well as exploring the biological processes of flowering plants and animals\"--Container.  Read more...",1.2645422220230103],["\"All forms of life - from simple to complex - share an ability and instinct to reproduce. Reproduction occurs either sexually through an exchange of genetic material between two organisms, or asexually where organisms replicate offspring with an identical genetic makeup to their parent. This program looks at sexual and asexual reproduction, starting at the cellular level, with clear explanations of meiosis and mitosis. The various benefits and disadvantages of both types of reproduction are examined, as well as exploring the biological processes of flowering plants and animals\"--Container.",1.2645422220230103],["All forms of life - from simple to complex - share an ability and instinct to reproduce. Reproduction occurs either sexually through an exchange of genetic material between two organisms, or asexually where organisms replicate offspring with an identical genetic makeup to their parent. This program looks at sexual and asexual reproduction, starting at the cellular level, with clear explanations of meiosis and mitosis. The various benefits and disadvantages of both types of reproduction are examined, as well as exploring the biological processes of flowering plants and animals.",1.2645422220230103],["Viruses require a living host (animal, plant, or human) to grow and reproduce.",1.262637734413147],["Viruses require a living host (animal, plant, or human) to grow and reproduce.",1.262637734413147],["There are two distinct stages in the life cycle of ferns. The first stage is that of the gametophyte. Spores are produced on the underside of mature plants. These will germinate and grow into small, heart-shaped plants called gametophytes. The gametophytes produce both sperm and egg cells, and will fertilize itself, or others. Once the fertilization occurs, the adult fern will begin growing.",1.2624130249023438],["Our soul/mind derives from these images the concept of plant-life, life forms which use solar energy and the earth environment to grow and reproduce.",1.2583463191986084],["Life histories: Giant kelp is a perennial (i.e. it lives for several years) while bull kelp is an annual (i.e. it completes its life cycle in one year). Both types of kelp have a two-stage life cycle. They exist in their earliest life stages as spores, released with millions of others from the parent kelp, the sporophyte. The spores grow into a tiny male or female plant called a gametophyte, which produces either sperm or eggs. After fertilization occurs, the embryos may grow into mature plants (sporophytes), completing the life cycle.",1.2582309246063232],["Organisms grow, develop, and reproduce in processes that occur on a cellular level and involve chromosomes.",1.2563340663909912],["Organisms grow, develop, and reproduce in processes that occur on a cellular level and involve chromosomes.",1.2563340663909912],["Reproductive Success is determined through the offspring of an organism. If the offspring is able to reproduce, then reproductive success is evident. Organisms that reproduce do so either asexually or sexually. Asexual meaning one parent resulting in offspring that is genetically the same, or sexual meaning two parents resulting in offspring with genetic variation compared to the parents. Bacteria, single celled organisms and some insects can asexually reproduce. There are many ways in which asexual reproduction occurs. Vegetative propagation, binary fission, budding, and fragmentation. Vegetative propagation happens with plants, as their roots or leaves lengthen underneath the soil, using mitosis expanding the area the plant takes up.  Binary Fission is the process of rapid cell division. Budding is when a part of an organism, or the parent cell branches off and becomes a whole new organism through mitosis. Fragmentation is when a piece of an organism detaches itself from the body, and grows into another organism, much like a starfish. Most animals or mammals reproduce sexually. ",1.253071665763855],["Unlike most animals, plants commonly use two different ways to reproduce, depending on conditions. These two different types of reproduction are sexual reproduction and asexual reproduction. Many plants we're familiar with, such as flowering plants, undergo sexual reproduction by making seeds, where each seed contains an embryo that will grow into a mature plant under the right conditions. Sexual reproduction requires both male and female parts of a plant, which mix to form the embryo, bringing different sets of genes from both parent plants.",1.246448040008545],["Clovers are delicate plants in the plantae kingdom. They reproduce because plants are both the same sex and when they reproduce they create more cells which produce more clovers. Those other clovers will grow around the original first one.",1.245101809501648],["Clovers are delicate plants in the plantae kingdom. They reproduce because plants are both the same sex and when they reproduce they create more cells which produce more clovers. Those other clovers will grow around the original first one.",1.245101809501648],["Plants are like chemical factories that grow and reproduce through a process called photosynthesis.",1.2406760454177856],["A GUIDE TO THE PROCESS OF GROWING NATIVE PLANTS: Reproduce and share this information as needed.",1.2406760454177856],["A GUIDE TO THE PROCESS OF GROWING NATIVE PLANTS: Reproduce and share this information as needed.",1.2406760454177856],["Plants are like chemical factories that grow and reproduce through a process called photosynthesis.",1.2406760454177856],["plants grow and reproduce.",1.2371628284454346],["Plants grow, change and reproduce.",1.2371628284454346],["- Plants grow, reproduce, and change.",1.2371628284454346],["Plants grow, change and reproduce.",1.2371628284454346],["Sclerophyllous plants such as manzanita and buckbrush grow in this area, both relying on fire to reproduce.",1.2369544506072998],["Grade Two &quot;Plant Life Cycles&quot; Your visit to The Arboretum will include plant life cycle demonstrations, which clarify the predictable changes that occur as a plant grows from a seed to produce the seed that begins the next generation.",1.2341307401657104],["An individual form of life, such as a bacterium, fungus, plant, or animal, that is capable of growing and reproducing.",1.2336329221725464],["Once germinated, the plant grows and eventually reproduces, continuing the life cycle.",1.2336329221725464],["Pollen contains the necessary fertilizers for plant life to reproduce and grow.",1.2336329221725464],["Pollen contains the necessary fertilizers for plant life to reproduce and grow.",1.2336329221725464],["Developmental biology is the study of the process by which animals and plants grow and develop, their ontogeny . In animals most development occurs in embryonic life, but it is also found in regeneration , asexual reproduction and metamorphosis , and in the growth and differentiation of stem cells in the adult organism. In plants, development occurs in embryos, during vegetative reproduction, and in the normal outgrowth of roots, shoots and flowers.",1.23011314868927],["The plant reproduces both vegetatively and sexually, flowering occurs sporadically and unpredictably.",1.2297734022140503],["Plant growth is the process by which the plant grows in size.",1.2275331020355225],["Simple plants like algae may have short life spans as individuals, but their populations are commonly seasonal. Other plants may be organized according to their seasonal growth pattern: annual plants live and reproduce within one growing season , biennial plants live for two growing seasons and usually reproduce in second year, and perennial plants live for many growing seasons and continue to reproduce once they are mature. These designations often depend on climate and other environmental factors; plants that are annual in alpine or temperate regions can be biennial or perennial in warmer climates. Among the vascular plants, perennials include both evergreens that keep their leaves the entire year, and deciduous plants that lose their leaves for some part of it. In temperate and boreal climates , they generally lose their leaves during the winter; many tropical plants lose their leaves during the dry season .",1.2197251319885254],["Simple plants like algae may have short life spans as individuals, but their populations are commonly seasonal. Other plants may be organized according to their seasonal growth pattern: annual plants live and reproduce within one growing season , biennial plants live for two growing seasons and usually reproduce in second year, and perennial plants live for many growing seasons and continue to reproduce once they are mature. These designations often depend on climate and other environmental factors; plants that are annual in alpine or temperate regions can be biennial or perennial in warmer climates. Among the vascular plants, perennials include both evergreens that keep their leaves the entire year, and deciduous plants that lose their leaves for some part of it. In temperate and boreal climates , they generally lose their leaves during the winter; many tropical plants lose their leaves during the dry season .",1.2197251319885254],["Simple plants like algae may have short life spans as individuals, but their populations are commonly seasonal. Other plants may be organized according to their seasonal growth pattern: annual plants live and reproduce within one growing season , biennial plants live for two growing seasons and usually reproduce in second year, and perennial plants live for many growing seasons and continue to reproduce once they are mature. These designations often depend on climate and other environmental factors; plants that are annual in alpine or temperate regions can be biennial or perennial in warmer climates. Among the vascular plants, perennials include both evergreens that keep their leaves the entire year, and deciduous plants that lose their leaves for some part of it. In temperate and boreal climates , they generally lose their leaves during the winter; many tropical plants lose their leaves during the dry season .",1.2197251319885254],["Simple plants like algae may have short life spans as individuals, but their populations are commonly seasonal. Other plants may be organized according to their seasonal growth pattern: annual plants live and reproduce within one growing season , biennial plants live for two growing seasons and usually reproduce in second year, and perennial plants live for many growing seasons and continue to reproduce once they are mature. These designations often depend on climate and other environmental factors; plants that are annual in alpine or temperate regions can be biennial or perennial in warmer climates. Among the vascular plants, perennials include both evergreens that keep their leaves the entire year, and deciduous plants that lose their leaves for some part of it. In temperate and boreal climates , they generally lose their leaves during the winter; many tropical plants lose their leaves during the dry season .",1.2197251319885254],["The Two Different Ways in Which Plants Reproduce",1.2186458110809326],["Just as in plants, there are two modes by which animals reproduce. These are:",1.2186458110809326],["The Two Different Ways in Which Plants Reproduce",1.2186458110809326],["Just as in plants, there are two modes by which animals reproduce.",1.2186458110809326],["Learning is as natural and needed for human life as is growing is for a plant.",1.2145289182662964],["Learning is as natural and needed for human life as is growing is for a plant.",1.2145289182662964],["Fragmentation occurs in multicellular organisms, be it plants or animals. In this process the multicellular organism breaks into two or more pieces on maturation. Each piece than grows into a new organism. Spirogyra which is a plant and sea anemones which is a sea animal undergoes the process of fragmentation.",1.2129032611846924],["\"This process is similar to the way that the souls of cells united themselves and advanced into the next step of evolution in order to continue and grow as a part of a bigger life form that they had created, which is actually a plant, an animal, or a human.",1.2081111669540405],["Plants can be a great source of harvesting passive immunization vaccines because they can be quite good at reproducing the antibodies, which occur normally in humans.",1.2039895057678223],["Plants can be a great source of harvesting passive immunization vaccines because they can be quite good at reproducing the antibodies, which occur normally in humans.",1.2039895057678223],["In a biennial cycle , a plants takes two growing seasons, or years, to reproduce.",1.195313811302185],["In a biennial cycle , a plants takes two growing seasons, or years, to reproduce.",1.195313811302185],["Biology 100 Melinda Ostraff Ethnobotanist Check Learning suite regularly. Also if you attend earlier lecture if you like. CHARACTERISCS of LIFE -Are composed of cells and exhibit organizxation -Reproduce using DNA - Grow and Develop - actively take in energy from their environment -Sense their environment and respond to it -Regulate constant internal conditions Actively take in Energy from their environment Sense their en Characteristics of Life First organisms were singles cells basic unit of Life contained units reproduce with DNA Reproduction via DNA Livinging organisms reproduce or replicate themselves Single celled organisms Reproduce using DNA Grow and Develop DNA as a blueprint Organisms grow and propagate themselves Take in Energy -Collect energy from their environment Use energy to grow and develop Sense and Respond Detect Danger Senses Maintain Internal Conditions -Can maintain Living Organisms Evolve Individual organisms change rapidly Growth of Individual A seed becomes a tree Groups of Organisms change slowly Species Group of interbreeding organisms Produce fertile offspring Evolution Characteristics of species changing over time. WHAT ABOUT VIRUSES Not composed of cells but meet other 6 characteristics of life WHAT IS SCIENCE? Coming up with theories that help define our observations Using empirical methods to test observations The way we learn about our Universe The study of everything around us Science is the art of creating Explanations for natural Phenomena that could be useful for predicting, and possibly controlling, nature. Rule #1 Reproducibility Scientific explanations are crafted to explain observations, but the observations that are used as a basis for these must be reproducible. Need to be REPRODUCIBLE Rules #2 Predictive Power Scientists prefer explanations Rule #3 Naturalism Scientific explanations do not appeal to the supernatural Only naturalistic explanations are allowed. Rule #4 Uniformitarianism The assumption that past events can be explained in terms of the “natural laws” that apply today. APPLICATIONS How do these four “rules” apply to the work CSIs do? WHAT IS SCIENCE (REVIEW) Science is a body of knowledge, a collection of unified insights about nature, the evidence for the which is an array of facts The unified insights of science are known as theories. A theory is a general set of principles, supported by evidence, that explains some aspect of nature Science can also be defined as a way of learning: a process of coming to understand the natural world through the testing of hypotheses. Observation -> question -> thypthese-> prediction -> Experiment or Observation -> Conclusion Which would leared to either the Hypthesis not supported by conclusion and pose new hypthesis or hypthesis supported make more predictions. LIMITS TO THE SCIENTIFIC METHOD Useful for studying the natural world Scientific analysis cannot: Make moral judgments Although information leading to those judgments may be based on scientific information. Prove or disprove faith-based beliefs Determine personal asesthic values. ------------------- Robert Hooks named Cell! From a thin slie of cork from a tree AntonVan Leeuwenhoek 1680 - Observed teeth plaque, sperm, blood and rainwater through a simple microscope (1 lens) - Looked at cells and saw “animalcules” Thought sperm was little humans The Cell Theory  All organisms are composed of one or more cells Human body - anywhere from 10-100 trillion cells The cell is the basic structural and functional unit of life. All cells come from pre-existing cells Prokaryotic Cells  No nucleus No membrane-bound internal structures Membrane-bound means surrounded by phospholipid bilayer Much smaller than eukaryotic cells According to fossil records - they predate eukaryotic cells Examples: Bacteria and Archaea Eukaryotic Cells Nucleus Membrane-bound organelles (but can also have non-bound) Examples:  Single celled organisms such as yeast Multi-cellular organisms such as plants, animals, fungi, you chuck Norris Purposes of a Factory A factory = Cells  The ell makes proteins (like machines) that help it operate/function Cell Membrane Lipid (Fatty) tail, phosphate head LIPID IS A FAT Oragnaized with lipid tails sandwiched between phosphate heads Hydrophobic v. hydrophilic Fear v. Love Protiens embedded in bilayer Cell Membrane Function Defines outer boundaries of cells Isolates cell’s contents from environment, but is semi permeable (allows select things to enter/exit) Chemical properties of lipids make membrane flexible and self-sealing Many different kinds of proteins Carry out enzymatic functions Serve receptors  Help transport substance across membrane. Nucleus Have nuclear pores that allow things to come in to be transcribed then to go out to become proteins. Found in all eukaryotic cells Double membrane called nuclear invelope Studded with nuclear pores that regulate traffic in and out Inside nucleus is an area where ribosomes are produced Houses the DNA: DNA contains all your genetic information Notes: Nucleus is NOT “the brain” of the cell. It is like a set of instructions or blueprints. Nucleus isn’t a brain it just has info, protein are the things that are smart and do the work. NUCLEUS IS LIKE A LIBRARY/BLUEPRINTS Ribosome All cells need ribosomes--why?  - Proteins Structure consists of proteins which bind with RNA Used as “workbenches” where proteins are assembled Ribosomes are the workers who make the machines. Proteins are the machines…..phopholipd is the gate Mitochondria Found in all eukaryotic cells (plants and Double membrane (outer and inner) Inner membrane carries many of the proteins involved in producing ATP Involved in producing the form of energy the cell can use -ATP Mitochondria is the Powerhouse where we get our energy Chloroplasts Found in specific eukaryotic cells (plants) Double membrane (outer and inner) Special pigment molecules give plants their green color as well as trap energy from the sun Uses the sun’s energy to convert CO@ (carbon dioxide) and water into sugars Used to create sugars Chloroplasts are solar panels Golgi Apparatus The Golgi apparatus takes proteins that have been produced by the ribosomes, packages them, and sends them to different parts of the cell or even to different cells. Golgi Apparatus is a Distribution Center Other Organelles Lysosomes (they are like janitor or recycling centers) Endoplasmic Reticulum (they are like the assembly line for the proteins) Smooth Rough (has ribosomes on them) Why are cells important  We are composed of them Not all cells are the same (even in a human) Cellular Division Living organisms reproduce by two methods Asexual reproduction Offspring are identical to the or i ginal cell or organism Involves inheritance of all genes from one parent Sexual reproduction Offspring are similar to parents, but show variations in traits Involves inheritance of unique sets of genes from two parents We as humans do both. Our cells use asexual but the egg, sperm are sexual. Cells arise only from preexisting cells Cell Division perpetuates life Cell division is the reproduction of cells Virchow’s principle states “Every cell is a cell. Roles of Cell division Asexual reproduction Reproduction of an entire single-celled organism Growth of multicellular organism Prokaryotes reproduce by binary fission Binary fission means “dividing in half” Occurs in prokaryotic cells Two identical cells arise from one cell Steps in the process A single circular chromosome duplicates, and the copies begin to separate from each other The cell elongates and the chromosomal copies separate further The plasma membrane grows inward at the midpoint to divide the cells We need to know chromosome is gonna duplicate and separate The Large, complex chromosomes of eukaryotes duplicate with each cell division Eukaryotic chromosomes are composed of chromatin Chromatin = DNA + proteins To prepare for division. Two parts of chromosomes are called sister chromatids and are linked at a centromere. They are equal by sides. When they separate they are separate chromosomes. Centromere is the only thing that keeps them attached. But they are two identical chromosomes The cell cycle multiplies cells The Cell Cycle is an ordered sequence of events for cell division It consists of two stages Interphase: Duplication of cell contents G1- growth, increase in cytoplasm S-duplication of chromosomes G2-growth Interphase In the cytoplasm Cytoplasmic contents double Two centrosomes from In the Nucleus Prophase Prometaphase Spindle microtulues reach chromosomes, where they Attach at kinetochores on the centromeres of sister Spindle Microtubules connect to kinetochore at centromere. Metaphase Means middle Spindle is fully formed Chromosomes align at the cell equator Kinetochores of sister chromatids are facing the opposite poles of the spindle. Anaphase Sister chromatids separate at the centromeres Daughter chromosomes are moved to opposite poles of the cell Motor Proteins move the chromosomes By the end of anaphase there is finally 92 chromosomes in one cell. One separated there are no longer chromotides. Telophase cutes chromsomes in half Telophase The cell continues to elongate The nuclear encelope forms around chromosomes at at each pole, establishing daughter Cyrikinesis Cytoplasm is divided into separate cells Applying your knowledge by the end of cytokinesis How many chromosomes are present in one humb Chromatids are made of chromatin Cytokinesis -Cleavage in animal cells - A cleavage furrow forms from a contracting ring of microfilaments Mitosis: Produces genetically identical cells for Growth Replacement Asexual reproduction Meiosis Somatic Cells have pairs of homologous chromosomes, receiving one member of each pair from each parent. Every cell in your body except sex cells Homologous chromosomes are matched chromosomes in diploid cells, one of which is inherited from the individual’s female parent and the other form its male parent. Diploid means fulls amount of chromosomes. 2 of these make a somatic cell. The human sex chromosomes X and Y differ in size and genetic composition Pairs of autosomes (all other cells in general) have the same size and genetic composition Meiosis is a process that concerts diploid nuclei to haploid nuclei Diploid cells have two homologous sets of chromsomes Haploid cells gave one set of chromosomes Meiosis occurs in the sex organs, producing gametes-sperm and eggs Fertilization is the union of sperm and egg The Zygote has a d Diploid chromosome number, one set from each parent Like mitosis, Meiosis is preceded by interphase Chromsomes duplicate during the S phase Unlike mitosis, meiosis has two divisions During meiosis 1, homologous Metaphase 1 Tetrads align at the cell equator Anaphase 1 Homologous pairs separate and move toward opposite poles of the cell Telophase Duplicated to make half of chromosomes Each nucleus has the haploid number of chromosomes Meiosis II follows meiosis ! without chromosome duplication Each of the two haploid products enters meiosis II Events in the nucleus Anaphase II Sister chromtids separate Which characteristics are similar for mitosis and meiosis? Homologus pairs: Both chromsomes from pairs that code for same shared info up to chromosomes 1-23 (include Autosomes and sex linked pairs Autosomes: Match up perfecting for traits 1-22 Sex Links: Determined your gender also number 23 rd pair",1.1941055059432983],["Why should we omit crystals which grow as truly as plants and reproduce themselves quite as precisely to type, or the more primitive forms of life which are reproduced by division?",1.1938565969467163],["Fire also benefits several plant species such as the endangered sandplain gerardia and wood lily, both which need fire to reproduce and grow.",1.1877999305725098],["Humans have many reasons to grow plants. We use them for food, for building materials, for pleasure and for many other purposes. A plant really just has one reason to grow – to reproduce and make more plants like it! A life cycle shows how living things grow, change and reproduce themselves. Many plant life cycles include seeds. This article describes the life cycle of flowering plants.",1.1820950508117676],["Angiosperms (flowering plants) account for most of the diversity of plant life. Their ability to live in a wide range of habitats is due, in part, to the fact that they are vascular seed plants, with the ability to grow and reproduce in wet or dry conditions. In addition, angiosperms have extensively coevolved with various animal species in ways that aids angiosperm reproduction. Animals play key roles in both pollination and seed dispersal for many angiosperms, and this is due to the two unique features of angiosperms: flowers and fruits. Flowers in many species attract pollinating animals such as insects. Fruit, which is actually the swollen wall of the ovary, attracts other animals to eat the fruit and disperse the seeds it contains.",1.1806640625],["These two fungi can grow on a variety of plants that enter both our human and animal food supplies.",1.1797739267349243],["These two fungi can grow on a variety of plants that enter both our human and animal food supplies.",1.1797739267349243],["  Flowering plants are capable of reproducing by both sexual and asexual means. Unlike other plants, flowering plants have visible sexual organs called flowers, which facilitate the production and dispersal of seeds and pollen. Reproduction in flowering plants begins with the process of pollination during which the male gametes are transferred to the female ovules. Following pollination, fertilization involves the growth of the pollinated ovules into seeds. As the seeds develop within the fruit of the flower, the fruit ripens and the seeds are freed from the fruit to be dispersed and allowed to germinate then grow into a new generation of plants.",1.1760526895523071],["Water Pressure Inside Plants The Process of Osmosis Water Control in Plants Agaves have thick, fleshy leaves, which ... Water Movement Most plants require large quantities of water in order to grow and reproduce.",1.173245906829834],["A: Boll weevils feed on and reproduce in cotton. In fact, cotton is the only cultivated host in which reproduction is known to occur. Both the feeding and reproduction processes damage bolls on the cotton plant ultimately reducing quality and the amount of cotton lint available for harvest.",1.1700087785720825],["Botanists are responsible for studying the properties and life processes of plants. They study how plants grow, reproduce, and manufacture food. Botanists may be employed by government agencies, private research organizations, colleges or universities, botanical gardens or private industry. ",1.1687030792236328],["00 Process Of Science Form and Function 2.2 b CURRICULAR CORRELATIONS GRADE: Third CONTENT STANDARD: Life Science CONTENT TOPIC: Plants CONCEPT: Plants reproduce and grow in various ways.",1.1687030792236328],["To prevent the chromosome number from doubling every generation. Sexual reproduction involves two cells (gametes) combining their chromosomes. The process is fertilization, …and the product is a zygote. If each gamete has a single set of chromosomes (as happens in humans, most other animals, and many plants) the zygote will have two sets of chromosomes. Whatever the zygote grows into, whether a person, pelican, or pineapple, every cell in the body will have two sets. If the gametes also have two sets each, the next zygote will have four, and so on, until you need a wheelbarrow to carry your chromosomes around! So every life-cycle that includes a doubling of the chromosome number also includes a halving, and that process is called meiosis. Meiosis occurs at different times in different life-cycles. In humans meiosis happens when the gametes are being formed, but in plants it happens when spores are being formed.",1.1682987213134766],["It is thus enabled to carry on all of the processes necessary to sustain life, to grow, and to reproduce.",1.1658718585968018],["Abstract: Cryptococcus neoformans causes life-threatening meningoencephalitis in immunocompromised patients. The fungus has two sexes, alpha and a, but the vast majority ofC. neoformans isolates seen clinically and in the environment are alpha, leaving them with apparently few chances to mate. \"Normally when you have sexually reproducing organisms, you find both sexes in roughly equal numbers,\" Heitman told The Scientist.During mating, C. neoformans develops filaments and spores. Haploid alpha strains can also grow filaments and spores in a process known as fruiting, which researchers thought was asexual and mitotic. To see if diploidization occurred during fruiting, Heitman and colleagues cultured cells from the buds of fruiting haploid alpha strain filaments. Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis revealed 97% of them were diploid.To look at whether fruiting involves chromosome assortment and recombination, the researchers examined spores from a diploid alpha-alpha strain constructed from a pair of strains marked with transgenes for either nourseothricin or neomycin resistance. Nourseothricin and neomycin transgenes showed independent assortment, and FACS analysis revealed that the diploid strain's spores were all haploid. Study of markers throughout spore genomes revealed that recombination occurred at a rate similar to alpha-a sexual reproduction. All progeny possessed unique genotypes, none identical to either parent, consistent with meiotic recombination.Same-sex mating could help C. neoformans generate the genetic diversity associated with sexual reproduction when the opposite sex is rare, Heitman suggested. \"This may explain the emergence of this organism as a successful human pathogen, and one that is distributed worldwide rather than being geographically restricted - as is the case, luckily, with many other human fungal pathogens,\" he told The Scientist.\"Many organisms are thought to reproduce only asexually because no mating partner has been found,\" no",1.1639808416366577],["Science 9 Unit a: Topics 1-3 Review Name: _James Plunkett Date: September.23/13 1) How does variation lead to biological diversity? Give the definition of each of these terms in your answer. Variation, the differences in characteristics of organisms caused by environmental and genetic changes; leads to biological diversity, the number of different species in an area because each plant or animal in a ecosystem has a variation. 2) What is a species? Hint: think about a species’ offspring. A group of organisms that share similarities. 3) How does variation within a species lead to speciation? Include the definition of speciation in your answer. Variation leads to speciation The evolution of different species from a single ancestor. 4) Make a chart defining both structural and behavioural adaptation. Include an example for each. 5) What is a diversity index? How do you calculate a diversity index? A measure of biological diversity in an area. You calculate it by dividing the number of runs by the number of species. 6) Fill in the blanks of the following sentence; Competition can occur between different species or within the same species. Organisms compete for Resources. 7) All of the birds in this image live in the same tree, but do they share the same niche? Explain your answer. No they do not live in the same niche because they live in different conditions on the tree for example the bird that lives on the inside of the tree would be more protected than the bird that lives on the outer edge of the tree. 8) What are generalists? Use the term broad niche in your answer. Also, give one example of a generalist. Generalists are organisms that can live in a broad niche or live in areas that don’t have specific temperature or animals. An example of a generalist is a human; we can live in a variety of places around the world. 9) What is a specialist? Use the term narrow niche in your answer. Also, give one example of a specialist. A specialist is an organism that has to live in a narrow niche or a much specified area or they will die. An example of a specialist is a polar bear, if you take a polar bear out of the cold it will die. 10) a) List one advantage and one disadvantage of being a generalist. b) List one advantage and one disadvantage of being a specialist. 11) a) What is a symbiotic relationship? A symbiotic relationship is a relationship between 2 organisms that live in close proximity that lasts over time. b) Construct a chart that names and describes the three types of symbiotic relationships. 12) What two things make up an organism’s niche? Shelter and food make up a niche. 13) Examine this picture of a peregrine falcon. List two structural adaptations and one behavioural adaptation it has that enable it to hunt for food. 14) If a trait is inherited from a parent, it is said to be inheritable. 15) a) Define asexual reproduction. Asexual reproduction is when an organism can reproduce without another organism’s sperm. b) List the four reproductive strategies that are asexual. Spore Vegetative growth in plants budding Binary fission 16) Describe binary fission. The splitting of a single celled organism into two new ones. 17) What is a spore? What is a zoospore? A spore is a single celled reproductive structure from which an individual offspring develops. A zoospore is a flagellated asexual spore. 18) Name the type of cell that plants use to reproduce asexually. Meristem 19) Cuttings from a parent stem may be used to produce new plants that are clones; exact copies of the parents. 20) Describe the process of budding. The process of budding involves cutting off a part of the plant and then planting it a growing it like a normal plant. 21) a) Define sexual reproduction. Sexual reproduction is when an organism can reproduce, but only if they find a mate or if in a flowers case a piece of pollen lands on the stamen. b) List the four types of sexual reproduction. Sexual reproduction in plants Sexual reproduction in animals Zygospores Bacterial conjugation 22) What are zygospores? A single celled reproductive strategy that some fungi use. 23) Describe bacterial conjugation. The process of transferring genetic materials directly from on cell to another. 24) How do plants sexually reproduce? Use the terms angiosperm and gymnosperm in your answer. Plants sexually reproduce by getting the angiosperm and the gymnosperm to reproduce sexually and produce a seed. 25) The first cell of a growing organism, with genetic information from both parents, is called a Zygote. 26) Label parts of the flower below. (hint: 5 female terms; 3 male terms) 27) Animals sexually reproduce using either internal or external fertilization. Name one advantage and one disadvantage of each. 28) What are gametes? A reproductive cell (egg or sperm) that contains half the amount of chromosomes. Structural Adaptation Behavioural Adaptation Armadillo curling into a ball when threatened Playing dead Advantage Disadvantage Living in a lot more places Advantage Disadvantage Having the same food and climate all the time Not able to adapt well to changes. Clown fish and Anemone because the fish uses the Anemone as protection and yet the plant doesn’t benefit. Whales and sucker fish because the suckerfish give the whales a bath while the whales give the sucker fish food. Sharks and Remora because the shark gets clean and the shark gives the remora food. Structural Behavioural Talons Swooping down at prey Sharp Beak Internal External Don’t have to find a mate Has to find a mate Over population because its faster Under population because its slower 1",1.1611417531967163],["The offspring of parthenogenesis will be all female if two like chromosomes determine the female gender (such as the XY sex-determination system ), but they will be male if two like chromosomes determine the male gender (such as the ZW sex-determination system ), because the process involves the inheritance and subsequent duplication of only a single sex chromosome. The offspring may be capable of sexual reproduction, if this mode exists in the species. A parthenogenetic offspring is sometimes called a parthenogen. As with all types of asexual reproduction , there are both costs (low genetic diversity and susceptibility to adverse mutations that might occur) and benefits (reproduction without the need for a male) associated with parthenogenesis. Asexual reproduction existed alone from the beginning of life on Earth for many epochs . When sexual reproduction arose (presumably through mutation) it introduced a means to expand genetic diversity through the partial contribution of the male, providing more options for the survival of the species in which it began. Many species followed this reproductive path successfully, some to the exclusion of the asexual pattern from which it arose, some enabling both, some retaining the capacity to revert to asexual reproduction—if necessary, and yet others that abandoned sexual reproduction and reverted to the asexual. There are species, such as some Kalanchoe plants, that once had the capacity to reproduce sexually, but wherein no males ever have been discovered and the species reproduces prolifically via its retained asexual methods alone.",1.1590304374694824],["Like nearly all trees Lindens reproduce sexually. Unlike animals though the male and female parts on many trees are on the same tree. Lindens like many trees can reproduce asexually through a process called propagation . Propagation means that humans cut a part of the tree off and plant it so that it grows roots and begins a new tree. Certain trees like Navel oranges which have no seeds can only reproduce this way.",1.1547822952270508],["We have spirit potential, but the reproduction process by which humans reproduce humans, according to the flesh, is one that requires both gender and function.",1.1524158716201782],["Habitat An area of land in which plants and animals live, grow, and reproduce.",1.1515003442764282],["An area in which a specific plant or animal can successfully live, grow, and reproduce.",1.1515003442764282],["Habitat An area of land in which plants and animals live, grow, and reproduce.",1.1515003442764282],["Habitat : An area in which a specific plant or animal naturally lives, grows and reproduces;",1.1515003442764282],["An area in which a specific plant or animal can successfully live, grow, and reproduce.",1.1515003442764282],["327 Plant Physiology (4): This course examines all aspects of the life processes of plants and the mechanisms by which plants grow, develop, and respond to their environment.",1.1495729684829712],["Protozoans have a variety of reproductive mechanisms. Some protozoans reproduce asexually and others reproduce sexually; still others are capable of both sexual and asexual reproduction. In protozoans, asexual reproduction occurs by binary fission, budding, or schizogony. In schizogony, the nucleus of a cell divides multiple times before the cell divides into many smaller cells. The products of schizogony are called merozoites and they are stored in structures known as schizonts. Protozoans may also reproduce sexually, which increases genetic diversity and can lead to complex life cycles. Protozoans can produce haploid gametes that fuse through syngamy. However, they can also exchange genetic material by joining to exchange DNA in a process called conjugation. This is a different process than the conjugation that occurs in bacteria. The term protist conjugation refers to a true form of eukaryotic sexual reproduction between two cells of different mating types. It is found in ciliates, a group of protozoans, and is described later in this subsection.",1.1495366096496582],["Two seeds are by a pleasurable Artifice joined together by Animals & both the Human sexes which being united by successive Alteration produce an Embryo which grows & is increased, acquires life & motion, & then is nourished by Milk.",1.1478841304779053],["Life grows, develops, reproduces.",1.147397756576538],["Life grows, develops, reproduces.",1.147397756576538],["LIFE PROCESS &#9;The plant is clonal and often reproduces by way of rooting branches.",1.1430329084396362],["X1014014701-00207-42451</DOCNO> Lect16 Hall Cushman - BIOL 121 Lecture 16 - Angiosperm Reproduction &amp; Development Announcements * assigned reading: Chap 34, pg 727-747 * minor change in lecture order * lab attendance &amp; asking questions Life Histories in Plants * annual - reproduces only once (semelparous) - entire life cycle (seed--&gt;vegetative--&gt;flowering--&gt; seed) occurs in single growing season * biennial - reproduces only once (semelparous) - two season are required to complete life cycle * perennial - reproduces multiple times (iteroparous);",1.1398930549621582],["All sexually reproducing life, including both plants and animals, produces gametes .",1.1393111944198608],["All sexually reproducing life, including both plants and animals, produces gametes .",1.1393111944198608],["All sexually reproducing life, including both plants and animals, produces gametes.",1.1393111944198608],["All sexually reproducing life, including both plants and animals, produces gametes.",1.1393111944198608],["Lindens, like many trees can reproduce asexually through a process called propagation. Propagation means that humans cut a part of the tree off and plant it so that it grows roots and begins a new tree. Certain trees like Navel oranges which have no seeds can only reproduce this way.and some plants especially under certain circumstances.",1.1373156309127808],["Lindens, like many trees can reproduce asexually through a process called propagation. Propagation means that humans cut a part of the tree off and plant it so that it grows roots and begins a new tree. Certain trees like navel oranges which have no seeds can only reproduce this way and some plants especially under certain circumstances.",1.1373156309127808],["Plant completes is life cycle in TWO growing seasons.",1.1337404251098633],["Plant completes is life cycle in TWO growing seasons.",1.1337404251098633],["Humans determine which animal or plant will reproduce and which of the offspring will survive.",1.1327877044677734],["Humans determine which animal or plant will reproduce and which of the offspring will survive;",1.1327877044677734],["A Unicellular organism has one celled organism and a Multi-cellular has many cells . Unicellular can reproduce with one parent but Multi-cellular has to have two parents to reproduce. In Unicellular have all life process occur in one cell the with Multi-cellular is sizes eight in shapes [cells] many kinds of cells are needed for life processes . Unicellular and Multi-cellular are similarities are all living organism are made of least one cell they are both living organism",1.132529854774475],["Many green algae, especially the multicellular ones, have both sexual and asexual stages in their life cycles, thus we must introduce the idea of Alternation of Generations we discussed along with meiosis. When we first discussed Alternation of Generations, we looked at a very simple diagram in which adults produced 1n gametes by meiosis, and those gametes joined by syngamy to form a new 2n generation. In reality in algae and plants, there are a few more stages in the process, thus we now need to revisit this cycle. The 2n generation, which in humans is called an _adult,_ in algae and plants is called a sporophyte because it produces spores. Within specialized reproductive structures in/on the bodies of the sporophyte, meiosis occurs to reduce the chromosome number from 2n to 1n, thus the spores which are produced are 1n. What is very significant, here, is that meiosis produces 1n spores, not gametes. Each spore germinates and grows into a new, independent, 1n organism (which often looks totally different than the 2n generation). These 1n organisms are called gametophytes because they produce the gametes (eggs and sperm), which are still 1n. Then, as we_ve seen in the past, an egg and sperm unite by syngamy (fertilization) increasing the chromosome number from 1n to 2n, and forming a zygote which is 2n. The zygote grows into the sporophyte, and the cycle starts over. Various of the green algae go through this cycle as do members of the next two groups, the brown and red algae. Plants also go through this same cycle with some interesting modifications we will discuss later.",1.1286102533340454],["First, water is the most common of the constituents, vital to the many processes by which cells grow, reproduce, and perform other life functions (McAlester, 1977;",1.1256027221679688],["Integrative Biology Minor (6 units) The integrative biology minor focuses on the mechanisms by which organisms regulate life processes, grow and develop, reproduce, and behave.",1.1256027221679688],["Integrative Biology Minor (6 units) The integrative biology minor focuses on the mechanisms by which organisms regulate life processes, grow and develop, reproduce, and behave.",1.1256027221679688],["Fortunately, burdock plants are quite easy to control because they reproduce only by seed, and take two years to become mature plants. The first year, low-growing plants called rosettes are produced from seed. To control the plants at this point, an application of herbicide is probably easier than digging out the deep taproot. Several good herbicides for this purpose include Safer's Superfast Weed Killer, Finale, and Roundup. Superfast Weed Killer is simply a highly refined soap; it will kill only portions of the plant with which it comes in contact and will not translocate into the roots. If you use Superfast, apply it only to the pest plant because it will damage grasses and desirable plants also. Check the plant periodically in case regrowth is occurring from the roots. Finale is a synthetic herbicide derived from naturally-occurring bacterium, in a water base (no petroleum), low mammalian toxicity. Roundup is also a relatively safe herbicide, for both humans and the environment, when used as directed. Roundup will move down into root systems. After application, it does not move in the soil and it breaks down quickly. However, like Superfast, it will kill any plant it comes in contact with, including grass, trees, and shrubs. Products containing the herbicide 2,4-D can also be used to manage burdock. Spot application of these herbicides can prevent damage to desirable plants. Herbicide control of burdock is most effective on the first-year rosettes. To control mature plants, cut them down before flowers and burs are formed. This will prevent new seeds from being produced.",1.1243325471878052],["**7.  Reproduction- All living thing produce young.  Humans make babies, cats produce kittens, and pigeons lay eggs.  Plants also reproduce.  Many make seeds which can germinate and grow into new plants.",1.12357497215271],["7.  Reproduction- All living thing produce young.  Humans make babies, cats produce kittens, and pigeons lay eggs.  Plants also reproduce.  Many make seeds which can germinate and grow into new plants.",1.12357497215271],["All living things produce young. Humans make babies, cats produce kittens and pigeons lay eggs. Plants also reproduce. Many make seeds which can germinate and grow into new plants.",1.12357497215271],["In the joining of specialized male and female reproductive cells, called gametes, seaweeds can reproduce sexually. The adult seaweed plant cells are diploid, which means they contain two sets of chromosomes. Diploid plants, sporophytes, poduce and release spores. Spres are produced by a cell division process (meiosis) that halves the number of chromosomes and forms two new cells each containing only one set of chromosomes (haploid cells). After being released from the sporophyte, the haploid spres settle and grow into gametophytes. The gametophytes then produce sperm or eggs. When the sperm and egg are fused together, a diploid zygote is formes, and as the zygotes develop into diploid sporophytes, the cycle continues. Some seaweeds also reproduce asexually, through a process that does not involve gametes. Fragmentation or division occurs when parts of the seaweed plant breaks off and can regrow directly into new plants. All seaweed plants that result from asexual reproduction are clones. Offspring and parent seaweed plants are genetically identical",1.1215406656265259],[": In the joining of specialized male and female reproductive cells, called gametes, seaweeds can reproduce sexually. The adult seaweed plant cells are dipl…oid, which means they contain two sets of chromosomes. Diploid plants, sporophytes, poduce and release spores. Spres are produced by a cell division process (meiosis) that halves the number of chromosomes and forms two new cells each containing only one set of chromosomes (haploid cells). _ : After being released from the sporophyte, the haploid spres settle and grow into gametophytes. The gametophytes then produce sperm or eggs. When the sperm and egg are fused together, a diploid zygote is formes, and as the zygotes develop into diploid sporophytes, the cycle continues. _ : Some seaweeds also reproduce asexually, through a process that does not involve gametes. Fragmentation or division occurs when parts of the seaweed plant breaks off and can regrow directly into new plants. All seaweed plants that result from asexual reproduction are clones. Offspring and parent seaweed plants are genetically identical",1.1215406656265259],["In the joining of specialized male and female reproductive cells, called gametes, seaweeds can reproduce sexually. The adult seaweed plant cells are diploid, which means they contain two sets of chromosomes. Diploid plants, sporophytes, poduce and release spores. Spres are produced by a cell division process (meiosis) that halves the number of chromosomes and forms two new cells each containing only one set of chromosomes (haploid cells). After being released from the sporophyte, the haploid spres settle and grow into gametophytes. The gametophytes then produce sperm or eggs. When the sperm and egg are fused together, a diploid zygote is formes, and as the zygotes develop into diploid sporophytes, the cycle continues. Some seaweeds also reproduce asexually, through a process that does not involve gametes. Fragmentation or division occurs when parts of the seaweed plant breaks off and can regrow directly into new plants. All seaweed plants that result from asexual reproduction are clones. Offspring and parent seaweed plants are genetically identical",1.1215406656265259],["The organism must carry out all of the life processes for the cell to function and reproduce itself, which sometimes occurs as frequently as every hour.",1.1193193197250366],["Unformatted text preview: Chapter 8 Bryophytes, or &quot;moss plants&quot; (the phylum includes both mosses and liverworts), are the most primitive of the terrestrial plants and require a moist environment for their existence. They are smaller than tracheophytes and lack the true stems, leaves, and roots that are found in higher plants. Bryophytes are dependent upon the moisture in their surroundings for both reproduction and fluid transport. The flagellated male gametes of bryophytes, like those of their aquatic ancestors, rely on water to help them move toward female gametes. Additionally, because they lack the efficient system of internal fluid transport found in tracheophytes, bryophytes require environmental moisture to ensure that all parts of the plant remain nourished. Like all plants, the bryophyte life cycle goes through both haploid (gametophyte) and diploid (sporophyte) stages. The haploid gametophyte comprises the main plant (the green moss or liverwort), while the diploid sporophyte is much smaller and is attached to the gametophyte. The haploid stage, in which a multicellular haploid gametophyte develops from a spore and produces haploid gametes, is the dominant stage in the bryophyte life cycle. This stands in direct contrast to the tracheophyte life cycle, in which the diploid stage is dominant. Mosses Together, mosses and liverworts comprise most of the phylum Bryophyta. Each moss sporophyte consists of a foot, stalk, and sporangium­containing capsule that extends outward from the &quot;leafy&quot; gametophyte plant. These sporophytes are somewhat parasitic toward the adult gametophytes to which they are attached, even though these sporophytes are able to produce much of their own food through photosynthesis. Figure % Liverworts Liverworts gained their name from the liver­like lobes that characterize some types of these plants. Other types are more moss­like, growing on damp rocks or soil, and others are &quot;leafy&quot; and live on moist tree surfaces. Liverworts, which have a life cycle similar to that of mosses (but with simpler sporophytes), can also reproduce asexually through small structures called gemmae that are formed on the surface of the liverwort leaf. After these gemmae break free from the adult plant, they can give rise to new gametophytes on their own. Fgure %: A liverwort Tracheophytes are distinguished from bryophytes by their highly developed vascular systems, which facilitate the transport of water and nutrients to all parts of the plant. This vascularization adaptation has allowed tracheophytes to become more fully terrestrial than bryophytes, which are still dependent upon moist environments for many reproductive and nutritive functions, as discussed in Bryophytes. Tracheophytes can be broken down into three classes: ferns, gymnosperms, and angiosperms. Ferns are the least evolved of the tracheophytes; they have vascular systems, and specialized leaf and root structures, but are still dependent on moist environments for reproduction. Gymnosperms (coniferous plants) and angiosperms (flowering plants), known together as the seed plants, have evolved reproductive processes that are independent of water. In addition, tracheophyte seed plants all produce embryos that are encased in tough coats. These seed coats prevent desiccation in a terrestrial environment and protect the seed until conditions are favorable for growth. Angiosperms can be further classified as monocots and dicots, depending on their embryonic development and other factors. Vascular Tissues Tracheophytes are characterized by the presence of vascular tissue, composed of specialized conductive cells that create &quot;tubes&quot; through which materials can flow throughout the plant body. These vessels are continuous throughout the parts of the plant, allowing for the efficient and controlled distribution of water and nutrients. In addition to this transport function, vascular tissues also provide a measure of support to the plant, contributing to tracheophytes' ability to grow much larger and higher than nonvascularized plants. The two types of vascular tissue are xylem (dead cells) and phloem (living cells). Roots and root hairs, through which the bulk of water and minerals enter the plant body, are also integral to the vascular system of tracheophytes. Xylem and Phloem Xylem consists of a &quot;pipeline&quot; of dead cells arranged end to end for water and mineral transport. When the cells that form xylem die at maturity, the nucleus and cytoplasm disintegrate, leaving a hollow tunnel. The leftover cell walls are very thick and provide support for the plant; the cavities inside provide a passage through which fluids can move. The xylem carries water and dissolved minerals upward from the roots through the stem and leaves of the plant. In larger seed plants, xylem cells are specialized into vessel elements and tracheids. Vessel elements are found in flowering plants (angiosperms), and are wider and better at conducting water than the tracheids of conifers (gymnosperms). Figure %: Xylem Unlike xylem, the cells that make up phloem are living at maturity and can carry materials both up and down the plant body. Phloem is comprised of sieve elements, which are arranged end to end to form passageways, and companion cells, which are closely associated with the sieve elements even though their exact function is unknown. Mature companion cells have both a nucleus and cytoplasm, while the mature sieve elements contain only cytoplasm; for this reason it is thought that the nuclei of companion cells may control the activities of neighboring sieve elements. Phloem is responsible for distributing the products of photosynthesis, such as amino acids and carbohydrates, from the leaves to the rest of the plant. Figure %: Phloem Roots Like the stem, the roots of a tracheophyte contain vascular bundles composed of xylem and phloem. Although the relative position of the two tissues is different, the transport system within the roots is continuous with that in the shoot, allowing for the efficient movement of water and nutrients up and down the plant body. The roots draw water and minerals from the soil and pass them upward to the stem and leaves. They are also responsible for storing the plant's organic nutrients, which are passed downward from the leaves through the phloem. Radiating from the roots are a system of root hairs, extend from the surface of the root and vastly increase the absorptive surface are of the roots. Growth in Vascular Plants Vascular plants undergo two kinds of growth, called primary and secondary growth. Primary growth occurs in the apical meristems, located at the tip of both root and shoot, and is mainly a growth of vertical length. The meristems are regions of rapid mitotic division, almost a cell­making factory. When a cell divides, one of its offspring moves down into the plant body where it elongates, and the other remains in the meristem to divide again. Secondary growth is a growth of thickness. Secondary growth is a product of two different, though related, tissues, which both fall under the umbrella term lateral meristems. Vascular cambium exists between xylem and phloem; on its inside the cambium produces what is known as secondary xylem, on its outside it forms secondary phloem. The primary xylem and phloem are pushed further inward and outward, respectively. As xylem gets older it often becomes clogged and ceases to function; this tissue is called heartwood, in direct contrast to sapwood, which comprises the functioning xylem cells. The vascular cambium is more productive during the growing seasons. During the rest of the year it creates little growth. This phenomenon creates distinct rings of growth, each ring representing a single growing season. By studying these rings, it is possible to calculate the age of a plant, and even possible to determine the specific conditions of a particular growing season. The second lateral meristem is called cork cambium, and is responsible for the formation of cork (bark), which replaces the epidermis is the protective covering of shoot and root. Gymnosperms Gymnosperms are commonly known as conifers, and includes spruces, firs, hemlocks, and othercommon evergreens. Like all tracheophytes, gymnosperms contain vascular tissues. They have developed seeds and nonflagellated sperm; male gametes (carried inside pollen grains) are moved by the wind instead of through water. The dominant phase in the gymnosperm life cycle is the diploid (sporophyte) stage; the gametophytes are very small and cannot exist independent of the parent plant. Male and female cones, the reproductive structures of the sporophyte, produce two different kinds of haploid spores: microspores (male) and megaspores (female). This phenomenon is called heterospory. These spores give rise to gametophytes of the same sex, which in turn produce the gametes. Figure %: Gymnosperm Life Cycle The separation of sexes in the gametophyte stage is a step forward from the dual­ sex gametophytes of bryophytes) and lower tracheophytes such as ferns. Gymnosperm are also characterized by a specialized fertilization process, involving differentiated male and female gametophytes. Fertilization occurs when pollen grains (male gametophytes) are carried by the wind to the open end of an ovule, which contains the eggs, or female gametophyte. Figure %: Angiosperm Life Cycle Angiosperms Angiosperms are typically divided into two classes: monocots (including grasses, grains, and spring­flowering bulbs such as daffodils) and dicots (including oaks, elms, sunflowers, and roses). As discussed in Xylem and Phloem , angiosperms have a vascular advantage over gymnosperms. The vessel elements in their vascular tissue, which evolved from the tracheids found in conifers, are more specialized for conducting fluids. In addition, fibers within angiosperm xylem give added support to the plant structure. Another positive adaptation that is exclusive to angiosperms is the flower, which attracts insects and thus facilitates the transfer of pollen. Flowers, the reproductive structures of angiosperms, take the place of gymnosperm cones. Furthermore, while the ovules of gymnosperms are exposed on the surface of the cone), angiosperm seeds (which develop from ovules) are enclosed within an ovary. This ovary later matures into a fruit, which aids in the dispersal of the seeds (through animals or wind) and protects the seeds from drying out. Much of the angiosperm life cycle resembles that of gymnosperms. The sporophyte stage dominates, and the gametophytes are even smaller than those of gymnosperms. The mature diploid plant produces male and female haploid spores through heterospory, which gives rise to single­sex gametophytes, which in term produce gametes. These gametes, through either self­pollination or cross­pollination, join to form a diploid zygote that eventually becomes a seed for a new angiosperm. Monocots Monocots, a class of angiosperms that includes grasses, grains, and spring­ flowering bulbs, are named for the presence of a single cotyledon (leaf) during embryonic development. In general, the veins of monocot leaves are parallel, the flower parts occur in multiples of three, and a fibrous root system is present. Bundles of vascular tissue are scattered throughout the stem instead of appearing in a single ring. Dicots Dicots, such as maples, oaks, elms, sunflowers, and roses, originate from embryos with two cotyledons. They are further distinguished from monocots by the network of veins in their leaves, the occurrence of their flower parts in groups of four or five, and the presence of a taproot. The vascular bundles of dicots are arranged in a tubular pattern in the stem. Figure %: Monocots vs. Dicots...",1.1178467273712158],["A similar process occurs in a number of mosses. Many mosses grow in compact colonies or mingled with other vegetation. In such circumstances, as the stems lengthen and branch the older parts may die and decay, creating separate plants where once there were branched plants. The accompanying diagram illustrates the process, showing just a moss and not the surrounds. Going from left to right a moss gametophyte branches. Both the main stem and the branches continue to grow. After some time the stem at and below the branching point dies. The dotted line indicates a former connection that has died. This now leaves two separate plants and the process continues. The final part of the diagram showing a number of separate plants of various ages. Sphagnum is an example of a genus in which this form of replication is common. This photo",1.116593599319458],["Aloe plants originated in Africa. They are succulent plants that are popular as both household medicinal plants and houseplants, and as landscaping plants in those regions in which they can grow without protection. They reproduce through both sexual and asexual methods, producing both seeds and offsets.",1.1160908937454224],["Wildflowers are plants which grow without human intervention.",1.1159700155258179],["Wildflowers are plants which grow without human intervention.",1.1159700155258179],["Here's an interactive presentation about cell division from Teacher's Domain. Adapted from a resource created by the Exploratorium, this presentation takes you through a process that is critical to life—cell division. As you recall, division enables cells to replicate their genetic material and then create an exact copy of themselves. Watch the presentation and explore the individual steps of this process, by which single-celled organisms reproduce and multicellular organisms develop, grow, repair damaged tissue, and reproduce. Simply read the information and click on arrows to see mitosis as it occurs.",1.1124669313430786]]