[["A simple structure such as a tree stump for bears to scratch their backs on can provide a more natural environment for the animals, allowing them to exert some control over their environment.",0.8804546594619751],["A simple structure such as a tree stump for bears to scratch their backs on can provide a more natural environment for the animals, allowing them to exert some control over their environment.",0.8804546594619751],["Birds or mammals can conduct heat from their bodies to the environment by decreasing the insulating value of feathers or fur. On a hot day, a curve-billed thrasher sleeks its feathers which creates a thinner insulating layer. Coyotes lose their thick winter coats in late spring; their early summer coats are relatively thin. A bighorn sheep also sheds its winter coat in the spring-but it sheds it in stages. During the heat of June, the belly and shaded parts of the legs are shed first, providing an area from which to lose body heat; the back, however, remains covered with thick woolly fur that insulates and shades the bighorn sheep from the hot overhead sun.",0.8655002117156982],["Birds or mammals can conduct heat from their bodies to the environment by decreasing the insulating value of feathers or fur. On a hot day, a curve-billed thrasher sleeks its feathers which creates a thinner insulating layer. Coyotes lose their thick winter coats in late spring; their early summer coats are relatively thin. A bighorn sheep also sheds its winter coat in the spring-but it sheds it in stages. During the heat of June, the belly and shaded parts of the legs are shed first, providing an area from which to lose body heat; the back, however, remains covered with thick woolly fur that insulates and shades the bighorn sheep from the hot overhead sun.",0.8655002117156982],["An example of an animal adapting would be the white fur on the polar bear to blend in with its environment or the cheetah being fast and agile in order to catch its prey.",0.8265325427055359],["The Canadian Shield was the greatest fur forest in the world as its environment was an ideal habitat for many fur bearing animals.",0.7682096362113953],["The Canadian Shield was the greatest fur forest in the world as its environment was an ideal habitat for many fur bearing animals.",0.7682096362113953],["Living in an extreme environment with harsh winters and hot summers, Amur leopards have adapted fur that responds to the season.",0.7542078495025635],["The black bear's coat allows it to well the cold weather of taiga winters thanks to its many layers of shaggy, thick fur. Their claws are very adapted to its the environment, they are just the right length to climb the diversity of trees in the taiga biome. This bear also hibernates to avoid having to find the already scarce food in the winter.",0.7371878623962402],["This is to help camouflage itself in its new environment to match with the dirt during the summer or back again when it regrows its longer white fur to match with the snow during the winter.",0.7109813094139099],["Penguins are not unique in their adaptations to the environment . Polar bears evolved white fur because it better conceals them in the arctic. All other bear species are brown or black, so we might presume that, among the remote ancestors of today's polar bears, the whiter individuals probably had more hunting success because their prey found it harder to spot them against the snow and ice. Squirrels evolved the behavior of burying nuts during summer and fall seasons to provide them food through the winter. Even the common dandelion has adapted to its environment by producing a characteristic, white fluff (called a pappus) on its seeds to increase their spread, and thus their chances of survival, in the environment.",0.6965352296829224],["Penguins are not unique in their adaptations to the environment . Polar bears evolved white fur because it better conceals them in the arctic. All other bear species are brown or black, so we might presume that, among the remote ancestors of today's polar bears, the whiter individuals probably had more hunting success because their prey found it harder to spot them against the snow and ice. Squirrels evolved the behavior of burying nuts during summer and fall seasons to provide them food through the winter. Even the common dandelion has adapted to its environment by producing a characteristic, white fluff (called a pappus) on its seeds to increase their spread, and thus their chances of survival, in the environment.",0.6965352296829224],["It is a real stress for a tree, to suddenly be taken from a winter environment, into summer like conditions, and then back into a winter environment again.",0.6964434385299683],["Many ponds will flush repeatedly in winter and early spring but respond well to fertilization in late spring, summer, and fall.",0.685329020023346],["Living in an extreme environment with harsh winters and hot summers, Amur leopards have adapted fur that responds to the season. Their fur is only about an inch long in the summer but grows to a warm 2 ¾ inches in length as the cold moves in during winter. The pale color of their fur helps camouflage them in snow.",0.653706967830658],["WOOD PRODUCTS VALUE : Western redcedar is an important commercial species throughout much of its natural range [ 80 ].  In the Rocky Mountains, western redcedar occupies some of the most productive sites, often producing stands with high volume [ 26 ].  The wood is low in strength and soft but is very resistant to decay, making it best suited for use as exposed building material such as shingles, shakes, and exterior siding [ 57 , 69 ]. Hand-split western redcedar shakes sell for several times the price of asphalt shingles but will last 100 years on a roof [ 8 ].  The wood is fine and straight grained, which makes it suitable for interior finishing [ 57 ].  Western redcedar wood is also used for utility poles, fence posts, light construction pulp, clothes closets and chests, boats, canoes, fish trap floats, caskets, crates, and boxes [ 50 , 80 ]. IMPORTANCE TO LIVESTOCK AND WILDLIFE : Black-tailed deer browse western redcedar seedlings and saplings all year long in British Columbia, and Roosevelt elk feed on them during the fall, winter, and spring.  Western redcedar constitutes one of the most important conifer foods of black-tailed deer in the Coastal forest region of southern Vancouver Island [ 51 ].  Western redcedar was more severely browsed than Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), western hemlock, or Pacific silver fir (Abies amabilis) on the Olympic Peninsula.  Western redcedar is a major winter food for big game in the northern Rocky Mountains [ 51 ].  An analysis of 69 stomach samples collected from elk harvested along the Lochsa and lower Selway rivers between January 1 and April 1 from 1960 through 1970 showed that western redcedar leaves made up 5 percent of the total winter diet by weight [ 72 ].  In western Washington, black bears remove western redcedar bark and feed on the exposed sapwood [ 50 ]. Cattle browse western redcedar in preference to Douglas-fir in northwestern Oregon, and sheep damaged western redcedar reproduction more than that of other trees in northern Idaho [ 51 ].  Seeds of this conifer were only occasionally taken by field mice in caged tests [ 52 ]. Old-growth stands of western redcedar provide hiding and thermal cover for several wildlife species.  Bears, raccoons, skunks, and other animals use cavities in western redcedar for dens [ 8 ].  In the southern Selkirk Mountains of northern Idaho, northeastern Washington, and adjacent British Columbia, grizzly bears have been known to use heavily timbered western redcedar and western hemlock forests [ 44 ].  Western redcedar is used as nest trees by cavity nesting bird species such as yellow-bellied sapsuckers, hairy woodpeckers, tree swallows, chestnut backed chickadees, and Vaux's swifts [ 45 , 49 ]. PALATABILITY : NO-ENTRY NUTRITIONAL VALUE : Relatively high concentrations of calcium and low concentrations of nitrogen are nearly always present in western redcedar foliage. Phosphorous concentrations are usually low [ 51 ]. COVER VALUE : NO-ENTRY VALUE FOR REHABILITATION OF DISTURBED SITES : Western redcedar can be planted on disturbed sites within its natural range.  The erosion-control potential and long-term revegetation potential of western redcedar have been rated as medium [ 13 ].  Western redcedar may be the species of choice for reforesting high, brush-risk areas near the coast [ 50 ].  It is suitable for planting on slightly dry to wet nutrient-poor to nutrient-rich sites [commonly with Douglas-fir, Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis), Alaska-cedar (Chamaecyparis nootkatensis), or western hemlock].  Western redcedar does best when planted in mineral soils on upland sites and in well-decomposed organic material on lowland sites [ 38 ].  Containerized western redcedar appears to perform somewhat better than bareroot stock [ 26 ].  Direct seeding is practical and effective where a mineral soil seedbed is available. Methods for collecting, storing, and planting western redcedar seeds and seedlings have been detailed [ 50 , 51 , 69 ]. OTHER USES AND VALUES : Perfumes, insecticides, medicinal preparations, veterinary soaps, shoe polishes, and deodorants are made from western redcedar leaf oil. Western redcedar extractives and residues are used in lead refining, boiler-water additives, and glue extenders [ 50 ].  Western redcedar was an extremely valuable tree to the Indians of the Northwest Coast, providing materials for their shelters, clothing, dugout canoes, and fishing nets [ 8 , 76 ].  Northwest Coast Indians shredded the inner layer of bark so finely that it could be used for diapers and cradle padding [ 8 ]. Western redcedar's drooping branches, thin fibrous bark, and flat sprays of scalelike leaves make it an attractive ornamental.  When properly trimmed western redcedar is an excellent hedge [ 8 , 41 ]. OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS : Insects and disease:  Western redcedar is a host for several economically important insect species.  One of the most important is the gall midge (Mayetiola thujae), which sometimes seriously damages western redcedar seeds in Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia [ 50 ]. Seedlings are occasionally damaged by weevils (Steremnius carenatus) in British Columbia, and large trees are killed by bark beetles (Phloeosinus sequoiae) on poor sites in southeastern Alaska.  The western redcedar borer (Trachykele blondeli) causes degradation resulting in cull of sawtimber [ 50 ]. More than 200 fungi are found on western redcedar.  A leaf blight (Didymascella thujina) infects second- and third-year nursery seedlings. As much as 97 percent of the natural western redcedar regeneration may be killed when this blight reaches epidemic proportions.  The most important fungi attacking western redcedar are root butt and trunk rots. Poria asiatiaa and P. albipellucida are the most important trunk rots near the coast; P. asiatioa and Phellinus weiri are the most important in the interior range.  Rots are most evident in old stands [ 50 ]. Animal damage:  Seedlings and saplings are often severely browsed by deer, elk, and rodents.  Browse damage may be one of the most important stand establishment problems [ 50 ].  Grazing by cattle in burned stands in the western redcedar/queencup beadlily (Clintonia uniflora) habitat type in southwestern Montana retards establishment of western redcedar [ 36 ]. Other damaging agents:  Western redcedar is often windthrown in wet environments, but it is windfirm on dry sites [ 50 , 51 ].  Western redcedar is damaged by salt spray [ 50 ].  It is also sensitive to atmospheric pollution.  Clay dust from a brick works in British Columbia produced a columnar form in nearby western redcedars [ 51 ]. Silvicultural considerations:  Care must be exercised when logging sites dominated by western redcedar due to the high water table.  Bottomland sites should not be disturbed other than to salvage high-value trees or to remove high-risk trees.  If harvested some dead and down logs should be left to serve as a seedbed for western redcedar and western hemlock regeneration.  Extensive disturbance of these sites could cause irreparable damage [ 13 ]. Western redcedar should be grown in pure stands when saw-timber, shingles, or shakes are the desired products.  Even-aged mixtures of western redcedar and other conifers will be harvested either too early for the western redcedar sawtimber or too late for the other conifers when mixed-species, even-aged stands are clearcut.  Western redcedar can be grown in mixed stands when poles are to be produced under even-aged management regimes.  A nearly closed canopy should be maintained at all times.  Open-grown western redcedar tend to develop poor form, excessive limbs, and multiple tops [ 51 ].  Western redcedar is perhaps the most valuable species for which uneven-aged systems are applicable in the highly productive western redcedar and western hemlock habitat types of the Inland West [ 26 ]. Response to release:  Because western redcedar is shade tolerant, it should be treated to minimize shock from release through slow or timely thinning treatments.  Western redcedar's ability to respond to release varies with tree, stand, and site conditions.  An 80-year-old western redcedar stand, with the overstory removed and thinned, responded with increased growth rates up to 5 years after treatment.  However, 5 to 10 years after release, growth rates slowed, and root diseases became apparent [ 26 ].  Releasing western redcedar saplings slowly over a 17 year period had good results.  The saplings responded favorably to release with increased growth rates and a gradual increase in vigor. Thinning western redcedar stands should occur prior to age 30.  Spacing of 1 foot by 1 foot (0.3 by 0.3 m) is appropriate for most young stands. This density provides good tree and stand development and retains the options for future intermediate treatments [ 25 , 26 ].",0.6484953761100769],["No picture of a flea would be complete without a photo of the flea's strong back legs. Fleas move from host to host and from host to environment to host by jumping through the air. It takes strong legs to hop like this. The flea is said to have the biggest jump of any animal, compared to its own body size! The flea's back legs are also designed to propel the flea forwards through the animal's fur at high speed so that it can evade the teeth and claws of the animal host as it attempts to remove the flea parasite through biting, chewing and scratching activities.",0.646591067314148],["Example: keeping warm in winter - polar bear's fur. Classroom Habitat Get to know a mini habitat by setting up classroom environments for a variety of small animals, like fish, earthworms, mealworms, chameleon, mice, gerbils ants, hamsters.",0.6371352076530457],["During the winter, the Arctic Fox's white fur helps it blend in with its snowy surroundings, and its fur darkens during the summer to maintain camoflauge with its environment during different times of the year.",0.6260273456573486],["describe ways in which animals respond and adapt to their environment (e.g., weasels change colour for camouflage in summer and winter;",0.6214920282363892]]