[["13. What’s in Soil?Soil Isn’t a Dirty WordObjectivesGetting StartedGather materials, make necessary copies, and transparencies.Students will be able toFor Activity 3, cut a 6-inch piece of yarn or string and tape onelist the four componentsend to the center of the “Soil Pie: Components of the Soil.” Theof soil.other end should remain loose so that you can move it up ordown to show how the percentage of water and air changesStudents will be able todepending on climatic conditions.estimate the amount ofminerals and organicProceduresmaterials in a given soilsample. Activity 1 - Soil Inventory1. Divide students into pairs. Give each pair a small plastic bagStudents will be able to of soil (students could have brought samples from home, butdemonstrate that soilmake sure that it is really soil not a soilless media like somecontains air and water.potting mixtures, which is for the most part organic matter). Ask them to dump their sample out onto a newspaper.Materials 2. Using a hand lens, ask each pair of students to write down what they see or feel (moisture) in their sample. You may• small plastic bag of want to let them know that the small, bead-like, particles they loose, crushed, soil forsee are called mineral matter. Depending on the samples, each pair of students they should see mineral pieces (little rocklike pieces), organic• newspapermatter, (leaves, sticks, straw, worms, beetles, etc.), water• hand lenses(moisture, unless the soil is totally dry) and air (which they will• tissue paper or thin probably not mention, because they cannot see it). paper towel (thick 3. Show students the “Components of Soil” transparency. All of school brown paperthe items they have inventoried should fit into one of the four towels do not work) soil component categories.• overhead projector• water Activity 2 - Soil Moisture• 2-cup containers: 1. Pick one of the soil samples that feels moist or appears to plastic or paper cups,have the most organic matter. soup cans or beakers.2. Place a paper towel on your overhead. Notice that it blocks• 1 cup measuring cups out the light. Place a drop of water on the paper towel, some• Soil Componentsof the light now shines through. transparency 3. Place the moist soil sample on the paper towel and after a few minutes (depending how wet your sample is) dump off theTime soil. Check to see if the soil left any moisture in the towel by placing it on the lit overhead. Soils do hold moisture.Activity 1: 30 minutesActivity 2: 10 minutesActivity 3: 20 minutes9 Utah Agriculture in the Classroom",1.5099289417266846],["Worm is ambivalent Worm is an expert with a lasso Worm is Bowdlerized Worm is caricatured Worm is Comstockered Worm is condensed Worm is Copyrighted Worm is deconstructed Worm is divisive Worm is edited and abridged Worm is incoherent Worm is lethargic Worm is shocked by a spaghetti dinner Worm is shocked by plaid pants with a striped shirt Worm is tempted by the devil Worm is unable to make head nor tail of himself Worm joins the army, stands at attention Worm joins the Red Cross Worm kabob Worm lays on his back Worm learns to write his name Worm leaves an aching void Worm likes his new false teeth \nWorm loves having Japanese beetles walk on his back Worm meditates Worm meets three friends from space Worm on a bicycle Worm on a coat hanger Worm on a dark night Worm on a pogo stick Worm on a stick Worm on a surfboard Worm on a Unicycle Worm on rye Worm on the rack Worm on the rise Worm pauses Worm peeking out from behind a tree Worm peeking out of his hole Worm places a wreath at the tomb of the Unknown Worm Worm playing cards Worm puts the final period on his autobiography Worm races a train crosscountry Worm rebels against the rank and file Worm shark Worm shoe Worm sits on a rock and stares at the stars Worm Skiing Worm Soup Worm spontaneously combusts Worm swallows a caesura Worm takes a shower Worm takes up parachuting Worm tied in a bow Worm ties himself around the earth Worm toast Worm travels as the crow crawls Worm turns Worm visits the moon Worm wearing a bow tie Worm wearing the medal for defeating the Axis powers Worm wears a designer dress Worm wears a disguise Worm wears a nose ring Worm wears a skull cap Worm wears a sock Worm wins the gold medal at the Olympic Pole Vault Worm with a moustache Worm with a pony tail Worm with baseball bat Worm with glasses Worm with his tongue cut out Worm with top hat Worm with wig Worm wonders why dogs don't love him Worm wonders why Worm: A Self Portrait Worm: Illustrated Edition Worm's Denouement Worm's Id Wormen Miranda Worms and Lovers The Worms drew a crowd at the Hollywood Bowl Worms in conflict You Dirty Rat!",1.493797779083252],["The holes are needed for aeration and drainage, they also makes it possible for the worms to move from one container to another (more about that later).",1.4873193502426147],["While many of the answers here are somewhat right, they all lack the important information of the proper type of worm to use. While you could go to the local bait shop for your worms, you could be be buying yourself a heap of problems. Worms found in the baitshop may not be the correct species or may be infected with various types of fungi, bacteria, or mites. While this is not a problem if you plan to feed them to your local fish population, it is an issue if you plan to keep them in your home. Also, a number of the worms sold in your bait shop are larval forms of beetles and will not be worms for long... The species you need are either Eisenia foetida (Red Wiggler) or Lumbricus rubellus (Red Worms). These species are commonly found in organic rich soils throughout Europe and north America and especially prefer the special conditions in rotting vegetation, compost and manure piles. Small-scale vermicomposting is well-suited to turn kitchen waste into high-quality soil, where space is limited. Vermicomposting bins (also known as worm bins) vary drastically depending on the desired size of the system. Garden-scale containers can be made out of bricks arranged in the shape of a box. Bins for an apartment or similar dwelling can be anything from reused plastic buckets to purpose-built commercial containers. Small-scale systems may use a wide variety of bins. Often, small-scale composters build their own bins. Companies also sell such bins. Commonly, bins are made of old plastic containers, wood, Styrofoam containers, or metal containers. Some materials are less desirable than others in bin construction. Styrofoam is believed to release toxins into the earthworms' environment. Metal containers often conduct heat too readily, are prone to rusting, and may release heavy metals into compost. Bins should have holes in the sides to allow air to flow, and a spout that can be opened or closed or holes in the bottom to drain into a collection tray. Plastic bins require more drainage than wooden ones because they are non-absorbent. The design of a small bin usually depends on where an individual wishes to store the bin and how they wish to feed the worms. Most small bins can be grouped into three categories: Non-continuous – an undivided container. A layer of bedding materials is placed in the bin, lining the bottom. Worms are added and organic matter for composting is added in a layer above the bedding. Another layer is added on top of the organic matter and the worms will start to compost the organic matter and bedding. This type of bin is often used because it is small and easy to build. But it is relatively difficult to harvest because all the materials and worms must be emptied out when harvesting. Continuous vertical flow – a series of trays stacked vertically. The bottom-most tray is filled first, in a similar fashion to any other bin, but is not harvested when it is full. Instead, a thick layer of bedding is added on top and the tray above is used for adding organic material. Worms finish composting the materials in the bottom tray and then migrate to the one above. When a sufficient number of worms have migrated, the vermicompost in the bottom tray can be collected and should be relatively free of worms. These bins provide an easier method of harvesting. Continuous horizontal flow – a series of trays lined horizontally. This method too relies on the earthworms migrating towards a food source in order to ease the process of harvesting. The bin is usually constructed to be similar to a non-continuous bin but longer horizontally. It is divided in half, usually by a large gauge screen of chicken wire. One half is used until it becomes full, then the other half is filled with bedding and organic matter. In time, the worms migrate to the side with the food and the compost can be collected. These bins are larger than a non-continuous system but still small enough to be convenient. If done correctly, your vermiculture will not stink or have any problems. In fact, I have a friend that has it right in her kitchen. Her husband does woodworking and fashioned a bench for their vertical flow one that also works as a bench to sit on. She gets such a laugh out of telling visitors that they are sitting on a box of worms! Good luck and hope that helps you out!",1.4640161991119385],["We transport unsorted worms by car from Woods Hole, Massachusetts, to Chicago, Illinois by layering the sieved sediment containing the worms into shallow, covered plastic containers (the same as used for the adult worm culture) along with some extra sediment and seawater, allowing for air space above the water.",1.4143701791763306],["Carefully dig around worms that resist. Worms are equipped with setae, which are bristles that help them move through the earth. This may make it difficult to pull worms directly out of the ground. Dig around a worm that is trying to burrow back into the ground, being careful not to cut the worm. Once you’ve loosened the soil, it will be easy to pluck the worm out and put it in your storage container.",1.243133306503296],["If the soil becomes too dry, the worms will move toward the bottom the container;",1.200273871421814],["Since the containers have holes in the bottom, the worms will now move up towards the top container as they run out of food in the lower one.",1.177079439163208],["Since the containers have holes in the bottom, the worms will now move up towards the top container as they run out of food in the lower one.",1.177079439163208],["Place the damp shredded newspaper with the garden soil and crushed egg shell in the container. Don't pack it down. Add the worms to their new home. If you leave the lid off and the light on, it will encourage the worms to investigate the new digs. Don't forget to add some worm food before you move the bin into the dark. You know you can get real hungry after the lights go out. Don't worry if hard foods don't disappear right away. They will have to soften through natural decay before the worms can eat them.",1.095310926437378],["If the worms were purchased in a suitable container you don’t need to move them.",1.0833467245101929],["If the worms were purchased in a suitable container you don’t need to move them.",1.0833467245101929],["ANALYSIS OF DATA: 34 F. top shelf of refrigerator Test one Worm one - quite slow movement, translucent Worm two - moved slowly when touched, same coloring, blister Test two Worm one - appeared dead, no movement, lighter Worm two - stretched out, moved same as before, blister Test three Worm one - moved slowly, translucent, pale green blister Worm two - same movement, darker than before 40 F. bottom crisper drawer Test one Worm one - same behavior as before refrigerated, more translucent, lost some color Worm two - moved same as before refrigerated, appearance same Test two Worm one - went to the top of the container, blister on muscle in middle of body Worm two - stayed in same place, color a little darker Test three Worm one - moved faster than before refrigerated, \nwent to bottom of container, same coloring Worm two - somewhat sluggish, same color Most of the worms in the 34 degree temperature were slower and moved in a sluggish manner.",1.0714129209518433],["37 Worm moved in these circles as a student.",1.0638811588287354],["Container of wood or plastic. We use a sturdy plastic container that is about 7 inches deep, 9 inches wide and 14 inches long. The measurements are not real critical. This just happens to be an easy size for us to keep around the office and carry to presentations. If you are going to keep your worm farm inside, you will want it to be water tight. The worms are going to be happier when kept in the dark. (Kind of like some folks around here.) If your container is clear, wrap it with newsprint or place it in a cabinet or a opaque container to seal out the light. Make sure that the place you find to store the bin is away from vibrations. Worms will try to pack their bags and move to better digs if they are too near a source of vibration.",1.0635986328125],["Worms need air spaces between soil particles.",1.0539246797561646],["Worms need air spaces between soil particles.",1.0539246797561646],["Although astronomy and space exploration were the most popular topics, first place went to a student who used radish plants, worms, and her backyard to quantify the ability of worms to enhance soil fertility.",1.0507292747497559],["Make Hydroponic Unit Cut slit in bottle about 13 cm from top, have student cut the rest of the way with scissors Drill hole in lid so that string will fit through Place string through hole in cap and replace on bottle (string will wick water to roots) Put 150 ml of vermiculite in bottle top Put 150 ml of grow mix in bottle top Put 400 ml of nutrient solution in bottle bottom Place inverted top in bottle bottom Plant seeds up against edge of bottle, spacing evenly, barely cover with soil Mark student name and plant type on HPU Put white paper under growlab and foil over growlab (wheat needs intense light) Record measurements on form Read Things to Remember Questions \"What are some of the factors that must be taken into consideration when making a decision as to \nwhich crop variety to choose for a long space mission?\"",1.0493637323379517],["the worm moves and mixes the soil",1.0020701885223389],["the worm moves and mixes the soil",1.0020701885223389],["The Letter to Students says: Some move about like little worms and insects.",0.9960188865661621],["The Letter to Students says: Some move about like little worms and insects.",0.9960188865661621],["Quart Jar Worm Farm \"You can make a simple worm farm to see how worms move and mix soil.",0.9788280129432678],["The parapodia can be moved with some independence of the movement of the rest of the segment because the segments contain oblique muscles that permit the worm to maneuver the parapodia.",0.9648216962814331],["Back to menu Worm Holes as Time Machines Because hyperspace is a fourth dimension in space and time, some theories suggest that a worm hole could be capable of linking not only space, but also time.",0.944965660572052],["Red worms are better for indoor worm bins because they are more at home in the small space and warmer temperatures of the worm bin.",0.9280702471733093]]