[["for example, a person who has a facial burn scar.",1.6368869543075562],["for example, a person who has a facial burn scar.",1.6368869543075562],["for example, a person who has a facial burn scar.",1.6368869543075562],["We inherit everything about the way we look EXCEPT for things like scars, cuts, burns, chipped teeth and broken bones. These are things that just happened to us. We call these physical traits ACQUIRED traits because we acquire (get) them as we live our lives.",1.5171277523040771],["Evolution only concerns the traits which can be inherited, wholly or partly. The hereditary traits are passed on from one generation to the next through the genes. A person's genes contain all the traits which they inherit from their parents. The accidents of life are not passed on. Also, of course, each person lives a somewhat different life: that increases the differences.",1.2626709938049316],["A person's genes contain all the traits which they inherit from their parents.",1.252606987953186],["A person's genes contain all the traits which they inherit from their parents.",1.252606987953186],["The observation that living things inherit traits from their parents has been used since prehistoric times to improve crop plants and animals through selective breeding .",1.2298449277877808],["The observation that living things inherit traits from their parents has been used since prehistoric times to improve crop plants and animals through selective breeding .",1.2298449277877808],["The observation that living things inherit traits from their parents has been used since prehistoric times to improve crop plants and animals through selective breeding .",1.2298449277877808],["The observation that living things inherit traits from their parents has been used since prehistoric times to improve crop plants and animals through selective breeding.",1.2298449277877808],["For example, this would include a person who has a significant scar from a burn on his or her face which does not actually limit the person in any major life activity, but who is nonetheless discriminated against when an employer refuses to hire, or a restaurant refuses to serve, the person because of a fear of negative reactions of others to that person.",1.195229411125183],["The colour of eyes is entirely inherited; they are a genetic trait . Height or weight is only partly inherited, and the language is not at all inherited. Just to be clear: the fact that humans can speak is inherited, but what language is spoken depends on where a person lives and what they are taught. Another example: a person inherits a brain of somewhat variable capacity. What happens after birth depends on many things such as home environment, education and other experiences. When a person is adult, their brain is what their inheritance and life experience have made it.",1.1445472240447998],["Genetics (from Ancient Greek γενετικός genetikos, “genitive” and that from γένεσις genesis, “origin” [1] [2] [3] ), a discipline of biology , is the science of heredity and variation in living organisms . [4] [5] The fact that living things inherit traits from their parents has been used since prehistoric times to improve crop plants and animals through selective breeding . However, the modern science of genetics, which seeks to understand the process of inheritance, only began with the work of Gregor Mendel in the mid-nineteenth century. [6] Although he did not know the physical basis for heredity, Mendel observed that organisms inherit traits in a discrete manner—these basic units of inheritance are now called genes .",1.1399805545806885],["( Example : P's hand is scarred from a severe burn.",1.129335880279541],["Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.100692868232727],["A person who inherits a dominant gene from one parent will automatically have the trait that the gene produces, unlike with recessive genes in which a gene for the trait must be inherited from each parent for the trait to show.",1.0889421701431274],["A person who inherits a dominant \ngene from one parent will automatically have the trait that the gene produces, unlike with recessive genes in which a gene for the trait must be inherited from each parent for the trait to show.",1.0889421701431274],["People have known for many years that living things inherit traits from their parents.",1.0876131057739258],["Clinically examples of excess scarring are hypertrophic scars common in healed burn patients and keloid scars seen in patients with this inherited defect in healing.",1.0818607807159424],["being regarded as having such an impairment even when no limitations exist, for example, a person who is scarred from burns.",1.0698283910751343],["being regarded as having such an impairment even when no limitations exist, for example, a person who is scarred from burns.",1.0698283910751343],["[4] [5] The fact that living things inherit traits from their parents has been used since prehistoric times to improve crop plants and animals through selective breeding .",1.0541528463363647],["The fact that living things inherit traits from their parents has been known since prehistoric times, and used to improve crop plants and animals through selective breeding.",1.0541528463363647],["The fact that all living things inherit traits from their parents is information that has been used since prehistoric times to improve crop plants and animals through selective breeding.",1.0541528463363647],["Each living person has a large number of genetic traits, such as eye colour, body shape and inherited abilities or disabilities, which cannot be easily related to the genetic markers.",1.0504271984100342],["Each living person has a large number of genetic traits, such as eye colour, body shape and inherited abilities or disabilities, which cannot be easily related to the genetic markers.",1.0504271984100342],["Each living person has a large number of genetic traits, such as eye colour, body shape and inherited abilities or disabilities, which cannot be easily related to the genetic markers.",1.0504271984100342],["Each living person has a large number of genetic traits, such as eye colour, body shape and inherited abilities or disabilities, which cannot be easily related to the genetic markers.",1.0504271984100342],["He has inherited traits from each parent.",1.047927975654602],["Traits of Living Things Some traits of living things have been inherited (e.g., color of flowers and number of limbs of animals).",1.0470505952835083],["Fun things to do: The Leonberger has webbed feet, a trait inherited from the Newfoundland.",1.0276546478271484],["Inherited traits are perhaps the easiest to understand. They are usually physical characteristics that you inherit from your parents or relatives through genetics. For example, you might inherit your mother's eye shape or color, or you might inherit your grandmother's smile. Height, hair color, eye color, facial features, and more can all be inherited traits. You have no influence on what traits you inherit. There is debate about whether personality traits and behaviors can be inherited, or whether they are learned through environmental exposure.",1.0154000520706177],["An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes. _ _ The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that …are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. The whole chromosome is made from a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA for short. Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. _ _ Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. _ _ Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.0040205717086792],["An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes. _ _ The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that …are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. The whole chromosome is made from a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA for short. Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. _ _ Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. _ _ Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.0040205717086792],["An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes. _ _ The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that …are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. The whole chromosome is made from a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA for short. Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. _ _ Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. _ _ Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.0040205717086792],["An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes. _ _ The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that …are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. The whole chromosome is made from a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA for short. Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. _ _ Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. _ _ Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.0040205717086792],["An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes. _ _ The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that …are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. The whole chromosome is made from a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA for short. Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. _ _ Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. _ _ Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.0040205717086792],["An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes. _ _ The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that …are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. The whole chromosome is made from a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA for short. Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. _ _ Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. _ _ Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.0040205717086792],["An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes. _ _ The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that …are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. The whole chromosome is made from a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA for short. Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. _ _ Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. _ _ Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.0040205717086792],["An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes. <br /> The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. The whole chromosome is made from a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA for short. <br />Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.0040205717086792],["An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes. _ _ The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that …are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. The whole chromosome is made from a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA for short. Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. _ _ Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. _ _ Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.0040205717086792],["An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes. _ _ The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that …are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. The whole chromosome is made from a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA for short. Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. _ _ Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. _ _ Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.0040205717086792],["An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes. _ _ The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that …are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. The whole chromosome is made from a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA for short. Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. _ _ Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. _ _ Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.0040205717086792],["An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes. _ _ The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that …are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. The whole chromosome is made from a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA for short. Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. _ _ Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. _ _ Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.0040205717086792],["An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes. _ _ The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that …are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. The whole chromosome is made from a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA for short. Some of these genes act individually but most act depending on which other genes are nearby or environmental factors or some don't get switched on unless something triggers them to do so. _ _ Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each of us inherit 23 chromosomes from our mother and 23 from our father. Males have one mismatched 'pair' which is referred to as the sex chromosome. Males inherit a y chromosome from their father and an X from their mother, whereas females inherit an X from each parent. The trait on one chromosome can be blocked by the matching trait on the other chromosome in the pair. These 'matching' traits are called alleles. It is rare that we inherit a characteristic just from one pair of alleles. _ _ Every living thing has DNA. Plants and animals that reproduce sexually get half their inheritance from each parent. These genes then recombine into the number of pairs for that species and a unique individual is produced.",1.0040205717086792],["If hemoglobin S is inherited from one parent, the person has sickle cell trait and is usually free of symptoms .",1.0019885301589966],["It has been argued that there is no such thing as stable personality traits from which one could reasonably predict how a person would act in a given situation.",0.9999747276306152],["On the one hand, the statement that a phenotypic trait is \"genetic\" and inherited often has led to the mistaken inference that it is \"genetically predetermined,\" a kind of \"biological Calvinism\" (Moyers, personal communication).",0.9924881458282471],["The studies on the Gigantic Three personality factors has shown two longstanding traits of Neuroticism/Emotional Stability and Extraversion/Introversion, it has show that personality traits are largely inherited which show that there are strong biological influences on their individual personality.",0.9842978715896606],["genetic material from two parent individuals unites to form an offspring, which has a new combination of inherited traits",0.957038164138794],["Genetic material from two parent individuals unites to form an offspring, which has a new combination of inherited traits.",0.957038164138794],["Genetic material from two parent individuals unites to form an offspring, which has a new combination of inherited traits.",0.957038164138794],["genetic material from two parent individuals unites to form an offspring, which has a new combination of inherited traits",0.957038164138794],["To be protected under Title I, a person also could have a record of such an impairment, such as a person who has recovered from cancer or is regarded as having such an impairment even when no limitation exists, for example, a person who is scarred from burns.",0.9551268219947815],["For example, if someone has severe facial scaring due to a burn, the scar does not impose any functional limitations, but may hamper the person's employment opportunities.",0.9548506736755371],["This is simple and the only other thing to know is that even if a trait is controlled by more than two alleles each offspring still only inherits two. For example, a person cannot have ABo blood as it has more than two alleles.",0.9442368745803833],["If you have chronic inflammation of the skin - from a burn, for example - it leads to scarring.",0.9411131739616394],["Heterozygote A person who has inherited a single gene for a particular trait.",0.9397501945495605],["Homozygote A person who has inherited two genes for a particular trait.",0.9397501945495605],["It has long been accepted that personality traits are at least partly inherited.",0.9397501945495605],["6 Inherited Traits _ An organism cannot control or change the inherited traits it has from birth.",0.9396468997001648],["6 Inherited Traits _ An organism cannot control or change the inherited traits it has from birth.",0.9396468997001648],["Human branding or stigmatizing is the process in which a mark, usually a symbol or ornamental pattern, is burned into the skin of a living person, with the intention that the resulting scar makes it permanent.",0.9363639950752258],["The deeply religious person has insight gained from the Bible which has always taught that these things are not of God, and we are not bound by any such inheritance.",0.9329437017440796],["It has physical properties, and personality traits, which distinguishes it from others.",0.9308247566223145],["We have been assuming so far that if different species have a trait in common, they have inherited that from some ancestral species -- in other words, that this trait is an example of homology, having a trait in common because it has been inherited from a common ancestor.",0.9299758672714233],["4 Inherited Traits _ All living things have inherited traits _ Do you look like your parents, brothers and sisters?",0.9286620020866394],["Psychological Disabilities vs. Personal Characteristics EEOC EXAMPLES The EEOC has provided several examples which seek to distinguish a common personality trait from a mental or psychological impairment or disorder.",0.9279987812042236],["Provide an example, not discussed in the text, in which a person who does the right thing displays a bad character (or character trait), or one in which a person acts from a good character (or character trait) but thereby does something morally wrong.",0.9211770296096802],["Traits, abilities and skills A trait or an ability is a thing that a person has.",0.9130376577377319],["Also, in a population with no variance for a trait, for example if everyone has blue eyes, the heritability for that trait in that population will be undefined because there is no variation to inherit.",0.9087083339691162],["Any evolutionary account of a new trait has to provide at least two things: a plausible selective pressure that would have served the trait, and a degree of inheritable genetic variation on which to work.",0.9068856239318848],["Imprinting It has been observed that some inherited traits do not conform to the expected pattern of classical Mendelian inheritance, in which genes inherited from either parent have an equal effect.",0.9050520062446594],["a person's inherited traits, determined by genetics",0.8988864421844482],["a person's inherited traits, determined by genetics",0.8988864421844482],["A person \"inherits\" these traits through the genes.",0.8988864421844482],["A person \"inherits\" these traits through the genes.",0.8988864421844482],["A person \"inherits\" these traits through the genes.",0.8988864421844482],["A person \"inherits\" these traits through the genes.",0.8988864421844482],["A person \"inherits\" these traits through the genes.",0.8988864421844482],["A person \"inherits\" these traits through the genes.",0.8988864421844482],["A person \"inherits\" these traits through the genes.",0.8988864421844482],["Each breed has an inherited trait, which is distinctive to them.",0.8947998285293579],["The trait is inherited as a dominant gene for which no lethal effect has been reported.",0.8947998285293579],["There are people, so there will be traits. What are traits? Simply put, traits are certain characteristics that humans have - their behavior patterns, the ability to react to …certain situations in a particular way; and more importantly - certain physical attributes. It is what makes all of us human in the true sense. Now the thing about traits is that we inherit some of them while others are acquired. Acquired traits would denote that the environment we've grown in, the kind of situations we've faced or any other such external factors have made us 'acquire' or 'take on' certain traits. Acquired traits would mainly refer to the behavior patterns. But inherited traits in humans is exactly the way it sounds - we inherit them. And the simplest way by which we can understand this is if we look at a pair of siblings. Chances are that they will look similar, have similar features, and have certain characteristic behavior patterns that they share. This is because they have inherited the traits. There are several such inherited traits. In fact, we rarely ever stop to think about these genetic traits in humans because they have been 'wired' into us (for the lack of a better word). They are ingrained and we therefore do not distinguish. There is inherited behavior in humans like anger or cooking abilities, and these are more difficult to notice. What are more easily observable are the physical inherited traits and that is what we will be dealing with today. So let us try and shed light on some of these traits through the following article. All in all, it'll make for a very interesting read and tell you a little something more about human genetics. List of Inherited Traits Traits are passed on from parent to child through genes and chromosomes which are made up of DNA. There are only 23 pairs of chromosomes in the human body (1 from each parent) but each of these chromosomes has several thousand genes in them. Some genes are dominant while others are recessive. The dominant genes are responsible for traits in humans, while recessive genes will only come into action if the dominant genes are missing. Thus it is these genes that will decide the inherited traits in humans. Here is a list of the commonly inherited traits. Use this list to see which category you fall under. Earlobes There are two kinds of earlobes. The attached earlobes and the detached earlobes. Attached earlobes are those in which the lobes are joined to the side of the head. They appear to be one complete structure. Whereas detached earlobes are those in which the lobe seems as if it is detached. They appear hanging from the ear. Dimples Notice how some people have dimples while others don't? That's because a dimple is caused due to a dominant gene which carries the 'dimple' trait. People who do not have dimples carry a recessive gene of the 'dimple' trait and therefore they do not have dimples. Sometimes we also see that the parents might not have dimples and yet a child has them. This is because they are passed on from the grandparents or even great-grandparents. The dimple trait which remained a recessive gene during the parents' conception, will have become a dominant gene during the grandchild's conception and therefore comes about in the form of a dimple. Tongue Rolling Some people are able to roll their tongue while others can't. This is due to the working of the dominant and recessive gene. Some people have the dominant gene which enables then to roll their tongue while others don't. What is interesting to note is that it is a single gene that is responsible for the presence or lack of tongue rolling. And here's something to think about, 30% of all identical twins do not share the trait. Cleft Chin A cleft chin is rather uncommon and comes about in people as a result of a dominant gene and a recessive smooth chin gene. While in the majority of the human race, it works the other way round. Hair Line Notice how some people have a straight hairline and others might have a widow's peak? Let's get to the root of that. Most genes have variations in them called alleles. These determine the way things will shape up. For example, the hairline shape has two alleles - the widow's peak or straight. The factor which determines whether a person will have a straight hairline or a widow's peak is determined by the fact whether the alleles (1 from each parent) are two identical ones or not (recessive or dominant). When a dominant and recessive allele mix, the dominant trait will be observed. Which means that if a child gets a dominant straight hairline shape from one parent and a widow's peak from the other, his hairline will be straight (since it is dominant). It is only if there are two recessive genes that come together that they will manifest to form the corresponding hairline. If not, then as a rule, the dominant allele will form the result. Freckles These are caused by a dominant gene and their absence denotes a recessive gene. Hair Appearance Some people have straight hair while others have curly or wavy. It has been studied that curly hair is a dominant trait whereas straight is recessive. So for all of you who have straight hair, it is because of two recessive genes that it has come about. Hand Clasping Try this experiment. Clasp your hands together and interlock your fingers without thinking. Now check which thumb is on top - the right or left. There is no explanation for this one. But studies have found that 55% of people place their left thumb up, while 45% place their right. Even though this has no significance, it is rather interesting, won't you say? Second Toe Some people's second toe (after the big toe) is shorter than their big toe. While others' are longer than the big toe's length. There are theories that are formed that the latter means that the person is dominating, but that is of course, not genetics. PTC Tasting For some, the chemical Phenylthiocarbamide (PTC) tastes very bitter while for others it has no taste. Thumb Look at your thumb carefully - is it a straight thumb or a hitchhiker's thumb (one that is slightly bent backwards). A hitchhiker's thumb is rarer than a straight thumb. Allergies Many people inherit allergies from their parents. It is not necessarily always external factors that cause them. If a parent or both parents have some form of allergies, then there is a high chance that they'll be genetically passed on to the child. Colorblindness Colorblindness comes about because of a recessive allele that is present in the X chromosome. Since women have two X chromosomes, and one of these has the normal color vision allele, colorblindness in women is less likely. Whereas since men have only one X chromosome, and they happen to inherit one which has the allele for colorblindness, it will come about as a trait. Hence men suffer from this condition more than women do. Vulcan Sign Here is an interesting thing to try out. Spread your palm out and then try to do a Vulcan sign. Join the index and middle finger together and the fourth and the pinkie together to form a 'V' sign. (Keep the thumb out of this!) Can you do it? Or is it a strain? Some people can do it easily while others just can't!",0.8910233974456787],["There are people, so there will be traits. What are traits? Simply put, traits are certain characteristics that humans have - their behavior patterns, the ability to react to …certain situations in a particular way; and more importantly - certain physical attributes. It is what makes all of us human in the true sense. Now the thing about traits is that we inherit some of them while others are acquired. Acquired traits would denote that the environment we've grown in, the kind of situations we've faced or any other such external factors have made us 'acquire' or 'take on' certain traits. Acquired traits would mainly refer to the behavior patterns. But inherited traits in humans is exactly the way it sounds - we inherit them. And the simplest way by which we can understand this is if we look at a pair of siblings. Chances are that they will look similar, have similar features, and have certain characteristic behavior patterns that they share. This is because they have inherited the traits. There are several such inherited traits. In fact, we rarely ever stop to think about these genetic traits in humans because they have been 'wired' into us (for the lack of a better word). They are ingrained and we therefore do not distinguish. There is inherited behavior in humans like anger or cooking abilities, and these are more difficult to notice. What are more easily observable are the physical inherited traits and that is what we will be dealing with today. So let us try and shed light on some of these traits through the following article. All in all, it'll make for a very interesting read and tell you a little something more about human genetics. List of Inherited Traits Traits are passed on from parent to child through genes and chromosomes which are made up of DNA. There are only 23 pairs of chromosomes in the human body (1 from each parent) but each of these chromosomes has several thousand genes in them. Some genes are dominant while others are recessive. The dominant genes are responsible for traits in humans, while recessive genes will only come into action if the dominant genes are missing. Thus it is these genes that will decide the inherited traits in humans. Here is a list of the commonly inherited traits. Use this list to see which category you fall under. Earlobes There are two kinds of earlobes. The attached earlobes and the detached earlobes. Attached earlobes are those in which the lobes are joined to the side of the head. They appear to be one complete structure. Whereas detached earlobes are those in which the lobe seems as if it is detached. They appear hanging from the ear. Dimples Notice how some people have dimples while others don't? That's because a dimple is caused due to a dominant gene which carries the 'dimple' trait. People who do not have dimples carry a recessive gene of the 'dimple' trait and therefore they do not have dimples. Sometimes we also see that the parents might not have dimples and yet a child has them. This is because they are passed on from the grandparents or even great-grandparents. The dimple trait which remained a recessive gene during the parents' conception, will have become a dominant gene during the grandchild's conception and therefore comes about in the form of a dimple. Tongue Rolling Some people are able to roll their tongue while others can't. This is due to the working of the dominant and recessive gene. Some people have the dominant gene which enables then to roll their tongue while others don't. What is interesting to note is that it is a single gene that is responsible for the presence or lack of tongue rolling. And here's something to think about, 30% of all identical twins do not share the trait. Cleft Chin A cleft chin is rather uncommon and comes about in people as a result of a dominant gene and a recessive smooth chin gene. While in the majority of the human race, it works the other way round. Hair Line Notice how some people have a straight hairline and others might have a widow's peak? Let's get to the root of that. Most genes have variations in them called alleles. These determine the way things will shape up. For example, the hairline shape has two alleles - the widow's peak or straight. The factor which determines whether a person will have a straight hairline or a widow's peak is determined by the fact whether the alleles (1 from each parent) are two identical ones or not (recessive or dominant). When a dominant and recessive allele mix, the dominant trait will be observed. Which means that if a child gets a dominant straight hairline shape from one parent and a widow's peak from the other, his hairline will be straight (since it is dominant). It is only if there are two recessive genes that come together that they will manifest to form the corresponding hairline. If not, then as a rule, the dominant allele will form the result. Freckles These are caused by a dominant gene and their absence denotes a recessive gene. Hair Appearance Some people have straight hair while others have curly or wavy. It has been studied that curly hair is a dominant trait whereas straight is recessive. So for all of you who have straight hair, it is because of two recessive genes that it has come about. Hand Clasping Try this experiment. Clasp your hands together and interlock your fingers without thinking. Now check which thumb is on top - the right or left. There is no explanation for this one. But studies have found that 55% of people place their left thumb up, while 45% place their right. Even though this has no significance, it is rather interesting, won't you say? Second Toe Some people's second toe (after the big toe) is shorter than their big toe. While others' are longer than the big toe's length. There are theories that are formed that the latter means that the person is dominating, but that is of course, not genetics. PTC Tasting For some, the chemical Phenylthiocarbamide (PTC) tastes very bitter while for others it has no taste. Thumb Look at your thumb carefully - is it a straight thumb or a hitchhiker's thumb (one that is slightly bent backwards). A hitchhiker's thumb is rarer than a straight thumb. Allergies Many people inherit allergies from their parents. It is not necessarily always external factors that cause them. If a parent or both parents have some form of allergies, then there is a high chance that they'll be genetically passed on to the child. Colorblindness Colorblindness comes about because of a recessive allele that is present in the X chromosome. Since women have two X chromosomes, and one of these has the normal color vision allele, colorblindness in women is less likely. Whereas since men have only one X chromosome, and they happen to inherit one which has the allele for colorblindness, it will come about as a trait. Hence men suffer from this condition more than women do. Vulcan Sign Here is an interesting thing to try out. Spread your palm out and then try to do a Vulcan sign. Join the index and middle finger together and the fourth and the pinkie together to form a 'V' sign. (Keep the thumb out of this!) Can you do it? Or is it a strain? Some people can do it easily while others just can't!",0.8910233974456787],["There are people, so there will be traits. What are traits? Simply put, traits are certain characteristics that humans have - their behavior patterns, the ability to react to …certain situations in a particular way; and more importantly - certain physical attributes. It is what makes all of us human in the true sense. Now the thing about traits is that we inherit some of them while others are acquired. Acquired traits would denote that the environment we've grown in, the kind of situations we've faced or any other such external factors have made us 'acquire' or 'take on' certain traits. Acquired traits would mainly refer to the behavior patterns. But inherited traits in humans is exactly the way it sounds - we inherit them. And the simplest way by which we can understand this is if we look at a pair of siblings. Chances are that they will look similar, have similar features, and have certain characteristic behavior patterns that they share. This is because they have inherited the traits. There are several such inherited traits. In fact, we rarely ever stop to think about these genetic traits in humans because they have been 'wired' into us (for the lack of a better word). They are ingrained and we therefore do not distinguish. There is inherited behavior in humans like anger or cooking abilities, and these are more difficult to notice. What are more easily observable are the physical inherited traits and that is what we will be dealing with today. So let us try and shed light on some of these traits through the following article. All in all, it'll make for a very interesting read and tell you a little something more about human genetics. List of Inherited Traits Traits are passed on from parent to child through genes and chromosomes which are made up of DNA. There are only 23 pairs of chromosomes in the human body (1 from each parent) but each of these chromosomes has several thousand genes in them. Some genes are dominant while others are recessive. The dominant genes are responsible for traits in humans, while recessive genes will only come into action if the dominant genes are missing. Thus it is these genes that will decide the inherited traits in humans. Here is a list of the commonly inherited traits. Use this list to see which category you fall under. Earlobes There are two kinds of earlobes. The attached earlobes and the detached earlobes. Attached earlobes are those in which the lobes are joined to the side of the head. They appear to be one complete structure. Whereas detached earlobes are those in which the lobe seems as if it is detached. They appear hanging from the ear. Dimples Notice how some people have dimples while others don't? That's because a dimple is caused due to a dominant gene which carries the 'dimple' trait. People who do not have dimples carry a recessive gene of the 'dimple' trait and therefore they do not have dimples. Sometimes we also see that the parents might not have dimples and yet a child has them. This is because they are passed on from the grandparents or even great-grandparents. The dimple trait which remained a recessive gene during the parents' conception, will have become a dominant gene during the grandchild's conception and therefore comes about in the form of a dimple. Tongue Rolling Some people are able to roll their tongue while others can't. This is due to the working of the dominant and recessive gene. Some people have the dominant gene which enables then to roll their tongue while others don't. What is interesting to note is that it is a single gene that is responsible for the presence or lack of tongue rolling. And here's something to think about, 30% of all identical twins do not share the trait. Cleft Chin A cleft chin is rather uncommon and comes about in people as a result of a dominant gene and a recessive smooth chin gene. While in the majority of the human race, it works the other way round. Hair Line Notice how some people have a straight hairline and others might have a widow's peak? Let's get to the root of that. Most genes have variations in them called alleles. These determine the way things will shape up. For example, the hairline shape has two alleles - the widow's peak or straight. The factor which determines whether a person will have a straight hairline or a widow's peak is determined by the fact whether the alleles (1 from each parent) are two identical ones or not (recessive or dominant). When a dominant and recessive allele mix, the dominant trait will be observed. Which means that if a child gets a dominant straight hairline shape from one parent and a widow's peak from the other, his hairline will be straight (since it is dominant). It is only if there are two recessive genes that come together that they will manifest to form the corresponding hairline. If not, then as a rule, the dominant allele will form the result. Freckles These are caused by a dominant gene and their absence denotes a recessive gene. Hair Appearance Some people have straight hair while others have curly or wavy. It has been studied that curly hair is a dominant trait whereas straight is recessive. So for all of you who have straight hair, it is because of two recessive genes that it has come about. Hand Clasping Try this experiment. Clasp your hands together and interlock your fingers without thinking. Now check which thumb is on top - the right or left. There is no explanation for this one. But studies have found that 55% of people place their left thumb up, while 45% place their right. Even though this has no significance, it is rather interesting, won't you say? Second Toe Some people's second toe (after the big toe) is shorter than their big toe. While others' are longer than the big toe's length. There are theories that are formed that the latter means that the person is dominating, but that is of course, not genetics. PTC Tasting For some, the chemical Phenylthiocarbamide (PTC) tastes very bitter while for others it has no taste. Thumb Look at your thumb carefully - is it a straight thumb or a hitchhiker's thumb (one that is slightly bent backwards). A hitchhiker's thumb is rarer than a straight thumb. Allergies Many people inherit allergies from their parents. It is not necessarily always external factors that cause them. If a parent or both parents have some form of allergies, then there is a high chance that they'll be genetically passed on to the child. Colorblindness Colorblindness comes about because of a recessive allele that is present in the X chromosome. Since women have two X chromosomes, and one of these has the normal color vision allele, colorblindness in women is less likely. Whereas since men have only one X chromosome, and they happen to inherit one which has the allele for colorblindness, it will come about as a trait. Hence men suffer from this condition more than women do. Vulcan Sign Here is an interesting thing to try out. Spread your palm out and then try to do a Vulcan sign. Join the index and middle finger together and the fourth and the pinkie together to form a 'V' sign. (Keep the thumb out of this!) Can you do it? Or is it a strain? Some people can do it easily while others just can't!",0.8910233974456787],["There are people, so there will be traits. What are traits? Simply put, traits are certain characteristics that humans have - their behavior patterns, the ability to react to …certain situations in a particular way; and more importantly - certain physical attributes. It is what makes all of us human in the true sense. Now the thing about traits is that we inherit some of them while others are acquired. Acquired traits would denote that the environment we've grown in, the kind of situations we've faced or any other such external factors have made us 'acquire' or 'take on' certain traits. Acquired traits would mainly refer to the behavior patterns. But inherited traits in humans is exactly the way it sounds - we inherit them. And the simplest way by which we can understand this is if we look at a pair of siblings. Chances are that they will look similar, have similar features, and have certain characteristic behavior patterns that they share. This is because they have inherited the traits. There are several such inherited traits. In fact, we rarely ever stop to think about these genetic traits in humans because they have been 'wired' into us (for the lack of a better word). They are ingrained and we therefore do not distinguish. There is inherited behavior in humans like anger or cooking abilities, and these are more difficult to notice. What are more easily observable are the physical inherited traits and that is what we will be dealing with today. So let us try and shed light on some of these traits through the following article. All in all, it'll make for a very interesting read and tell you a little something more about human genetics. List of Inherited Traits Traits are passed on from parent to child through genes and chromosomes which are made up of DNA. There are only 23 pairs of chromosomes in the human body (1 from each parent) but each of these chromosomes has several thousand genes in them. Some genes are dominant while others are recessive. The dominant genes are responsible for traits in humans, while recessive genes will only come into action if the dominant genes are missing. Thus it is these genes that will decide the inherited traits in humans. Here is a list of the commonly inherited traits. Use this list to see which category you fall under. Earlobes There are two kinds of earlobes. The attached earlobes and the detached earlobes. Attached earlobes are those in which the lobes are joined to the side of the head. They appear to be one complete structure. Whereas detached earlobes are those in which the lobe seems as if it is detached. They appear hanging from the ear. Dimples Notice how some people have dimples while others don't? That's because a dimple is caused due to a dominant gene which carries the 'dimple' trait. People who do not have dimples carry a recessive gene of the 'dimple' trait and therefore they do not have dimples. Sometimes we also see that the parents might not have dimples and yet a child has them. This is because they are passed on from the grandparents or even great-grandparents. The dimple trait which remained a recessive gene during the parents' conception, will have become a dominant gene during the grandchild's conception and therefore comes about in the form of a dimple. Tongue Rolling Some people are able to roll their tongue while others can't. This is due to the working of the dominant and recessive gene. Some people have the dominant gene which enables then to roll their tongue while others don't. What is interesting to note is that it is a single gene that is responsible for the presence or lack of tongue rolling. And here's something to think about, 30% of all identical twins do not share the trait. Cleft Chin A cleft chin is rather uncommon and comes about in people as a result of a dominant gene and a recessive smooth chin gene. While in the majority of the human race, it works the other way round. Hair Line Notice how some people have a straight hairline and others might have a widow's peak? Let's get to the root of that. Most genes have variations in them called alleles. These determine the way things will shape up. For example, the hairline shape has two alleles - the widow's peak or straight. The factor which determines whether a person will have a straight hairline or a widow's peak is determined by the fact whether the alleles (1 from each parent) are two identical ones or not (recessive or dominant). When a dominant and recessive allele mix, the dominant trait will be observed. Which means that if a child gets a dominant straight hairline shape from one parent and a widow's peak from the other, his hairline will be straight (since it is dominant). It is only if there are two recessive genes that come together that they will manifest to form the corresponding hairline. If not, then as a rule, the dominant allele will form the result. Freckles These are caused by a dominant gene and their absence denotes a recessive gene. Hair Appearance Some people have straight hair while others have curly or wavy. It has been studied that curly hair is a dominant trait whereas straight is recessive. So for all of you who have straight hair, it is because of two recessive genes that it has come about. Hand Clasping Try this experiment. Clasp your hands together and interlock your fingers without thinking. Now check which thumb is on top - the right or left. There is no explanation for this one. But studies have found that 55% of people place their left thumb up, while 45% place their right. Even though this has no significance, it is rather interesting, won't you say? Second Toe Some people's second toe (after the big toe) is shorter than their big toe. While others' are longer than the big toe's length. There are theories that are formed that the latter means that the person is dominating, but that is of course, not genetics. PTC Tasting For some, the chemical Phenylthiocarbamide (PTC) tastes very bitter while for others it has no taste. Thumb Look at your thumb carefully - is it a straight thumb or a hitchhiker's thumb (one that is slightly bent backwards). A hitchhiker's thumb is rarer than a straight thumb. Allergies Many people inherit allergies from their parents. It is not necessarily always external factors that cause them. If a parent or both parents have some form of allergies, then there is a high chance that they'll be genetically passed on to the child. Colorblindness Colorblindness comes about because of a recessive allele that is present in the X chromosome. Since women have two X chromosomes, and one of these has the normal color vision allele, colorblindness in women is less likely. Whereas since men have only one X chromosome, and they happen to inherit one which has the allele for colorblindness, it will come about as a trait. Hence men suffer from this condition more than women do. Vulcan Sign Here is an interesting thing to try out. Spread your palm out and then try to do a Vulcan sign. Join the index and middle finger together and the fourth and the pinkie together to form a 'V' sign. (Keep the thumb out of this!) Can you do it? Or is it a strain? Some people can do it easily while others just can't!",0.8910233974456787],["There are people, so there will be traits. What are traits? Simply put, traits are certain characteristics that humans have - their behavior patterns, the ability to react to …certain situations in a particular way; and more importantly - certain physical attributes. It is what makes all of us human in the true sense. Now the thing about traits is that we inherit some of them while others are acquired. Acquired traits would denote that the environment we've grown in, the kind of situations we've faced or any other such external factors have made us 'acquire' or 'take on' certain traits. Acquired traits would mainly refer to the behavior patterns. But inherited traits in humans is exactly the way it sounds - we inherit them. And the simplest way by which we can understand this is if we look at a pair of siblings. Chances are that they will look similar, have similar features, and have certain characteristic behavior patterns that they share. This is because they have inherited the traits. There are several such inherited traits. In fact, we rarely ever stop to think about these genetic traits in humans because they have been 'wired' into us (for the lack of a better word). They are ingrained and we therefore do not distinguish. There is inherited behavior in humans like anger or cooking abilities, and these are more difficult to notice. What are more easily observable are the physical inherited traits and that is what we will be dealing with today. So let us try and shed light on some of these traits through the following article. All in all, it'll make for a very interesting read and tell you a little something more about human genetics. List of Inherited Traits Traits are passed on from parent to child through genes and chromosomes which are made up of DNA. There are only 23 pairs of chromosomes in the human body (1 from each parent) but each of these chromosomes has several thousand genes in them. Some genes are dominant while others are recessive. The dominant genes are responsible for traits in humans, while recessive genes will only come into action if the dominant genes are missing. Thus it is these genes that will decide the inherited traits in humans. Here is a list of the commonly inherited traits. Use this list to see which category you fall under. Earlobes There are two kinds of earlobes. The attached earlobes and the detached earlobes. Attached earlobes are those in which the lobes are joined to the side of the head. They appear to be one complete structure. Whereas detached earlobes are those in which the lobe seems as if it is detached. They appear hanging from the ear. Dimples Notice how some people have dimples while others don't? That's because a dimple is caused due to a dominant gene which carries the 'dimple' trait. People who do not have dimples carry a recessive gene of the 'dimple' trait and therefore they do not have dimples. Sometimes we also see that the parents might not have dimples and yet a child has them. This is because they are passed on from the grandparents or even great-grandparents. The dimple trait which remained a recessive gene during the parents' conception, will have become a dominant gene during the grandchild's conception and therefore comes about in the form of a dimple. Tongue Rolling Some people are able to roll their tongue while others can't. This is due to the working of the dominant and recessive gene. Some people have the dominant gene which enables then to roll their tongue while others don't. What is interesting to note is that it is a single gene that is responsible for the presence or lack of tongue rolling. And here's something to think about, 30% of all identical twins do not share the trait. Cleft Chin A cleft chin is rather uncommon and comes about in people as a result of a dominant gene and a recessive smooth chin gene. While in the majority of the human race, it works the other way round. Hair Line Notice how some people have a straight hairline and others might have a widow's peak? Let's get to the root of that. Most genes have variations in them called alleles. These determine the way things will shape up. For example, the hairline shape has two alleles - the widow's peak or straight. The factor which determines whether a person will have a straight hairline or a widow's peak is determined by the fact whether the alleles (1 from each parent) are two identical ones or not (recessive or dominant). When a dominant and recessive allele mix, the dominant trait will be observed. Which means that if a child gets a dominant straight hairline shape from one parent and a widow's peak from the other, his hairline will be straight (since it is dominant). It is only if there are two recessive genes that come together that they will manifest to form the corresponding hairline. If not, then as a rule, the dominant allele will form the result. Freckles These are caused by a dominant gene and their absence denotes a recessive gene. Hair Appearance Some people have straight hair while others have curly or wavy. It has been studied that curly hair is a dominant trait whereas straight is recessive. So for all of you who have straight hair, it is because of two recessive genes that it has come about. Hand Clasping Try this experiment. Clasp your hands together and interlock your fingers without thinking. Now check which thumb is on top - the right or left. There is no explanation for this one. But studies have found that 55% of people place their left thumb up, while 45% place their right. Even though this has no significance, it is rather interesting, won't you say? Second Toe Some people's second toe (after the big toe) is shorter than their big toe. While others' are longer than the big toe's length. There are theories that are formed that the latter means that the person is dominating, but that is of course, not genetics. PTC Tasting For some, the chemical Phenylthiocarbamide (PTC) tastes very bitter while for others it has no taste. Thumb Look at your thumb carefully - is it a straight thumb or a hitchhiker's thumb (one that is slightly bent backwards). A hitchhiker's thumb is rarer than a straight thumb. Allergies Many people inherit allergies from their parents. It is not necessarily always external factors that cause them. If a parent or both parents have some form of allergies, then there is a high chance that they'll be genetically passed on to the child. Colorblindness Colorblindness comes about because of a recessive allele that is present in the X chromosome. Since women have two X chromosomes, and one of these has the normal color vision allele, colorblindness in women is less likely. Whereas since men have only one X chromosome, and they happen to inherit one which has the allele for colorblindness, it will come about as a trait. Hence men suffer from this condition more than women do. Vulcan Sign Here is an interesting thing to try out. Spread your palm out and then try to do a Vulcan sign. Join the index and middle finger together and the fourth and the pinkie together to form a 'V' sign. (Keep the thumb out of this!) Can you do it? Or is it a strain? Some people can do it easily while others just can't!",0.8910233974456787]]