[["It should be noted that there are plants and animals that feed on dead organic materials-- these are called decomposers. Decomposers help return nutrients back into the soil which will later be used by the plants within the food chain.",3.738593101501465],["When animals die, decomposers such as bacteria help to return nutrients back to the soil for plants to use, completing the prairie nutrient cycle.",3.1162400245666504],["When animals die, decomposers such as bacteria help to return nutrients back to the soil for plants to use, completing the prairie nutrient cycle.",3.1162400245666504],["Decomposers help return nutrients back into the soil which will later be used by the plants within the food chain.",2.9852492809295654],["When animals or plants die, nutrients in their bodies are returned to the environment by decomposers.",2.937252998352051],["3)When plants die, they decompose (by decomposers). Nutrients (nitrogen) are returned to the soil.",2.550909996032715],["9 How does the food chain actually work? A food chain is the path of energy in food from one organism to another. The producers (mostly plants) grow and become food for the consumers. The consumers eat the producers and some consumers eat other consumers. The decomposers break down dead matter (plant and animal) and return nutrients to the soil which helps the producers grow. Those worms in your yard have a very important job! All food can be traced back to plants! If one part of this chain is broken, the whole chain is disrupted.",2.4938366413116455],["These consumers eventually die for various reasons, and their bodies are broken down by decomposers, such as bacteria and fungi. The nutrients return to the soil, and the plants absorb those nutrients when making food. In some cases, plants die before another organism consumes them, and they decompose right away rather than passing their energy up through the food chain.",2.424132823944092],["The decomposers are the final level or stage in the food chain. Decomposers are organisms that consume dead plants and animals, and, in doing so, carry out the natural process of decomposition. Decomposers use deceased organisms and non-living organic compounds as their food source. The primary decomposers are bacteria and fungi. The decomposers then return some of the energy, accumulated through the food chain back to the soil as nutrients.",2.3887524604797363],["The food chain begins with primary producers, such as green plants, that get energy from the sun and convert it to food through photosynthesis. Primary consumers, or herbivores, eat plants, secondary consumers eat primary consumers, and even tertiary or quaternary consumers enter the food chain. At the end of the chain, fungi and other decomposers take care of the “waste” in the food chain by consuming dead plants or animals. Decomposers complete the food chain cycle, and when nutrients return to the soil, a new food chain begins.",2.3813982009887695],["When plants and animals die, they are broken down by decomposers .  The nutrients return to the soil and can be used by the producers .",2.3498024940490723],["Food Chain Game - 5th Grade Standard 4-5 LS2C: Plants and animals are related in food webs with producers (plants that make their own food), consumers (animals that eat producers and/or other animals), and decomposers (primarily bacteria and fungi) that break down wastes and dead organisms, and return nutrients to the soil",2.344088554382324],["Food Chain Game - 5th Grade Standard 4-5 LS2C: Plants and animals are related in food webs with producers (plants that make their own food), consumers (animals that eat producers and/or other animals), and decomposers (primarily bacteria and fungi) that break down wastes and dead organisms, and return nutrients to the soil",2.344088554382324],["Decomposition a. breaks down organic \nmolecules to return carbon dioxide, water, and inorganic nutrients b. Detritivores invertebrates feed on detritus (dead organic matter) break up organic matter into smaller pieces inoculate organic material with decomposers c. Decomposers Fungi (plants), bacteria (animals) Feed on and decompose small bits of detritus Release energy in organic matter d. Microbivores Feed on decomposers Trophic Levels, Food Chains/Webs, Energy Pyramids A. Food Chain/Web 1.",2.3047173023223877],["A decomposer is an organism that breaks down dead plants and animals and returns nutrients to the soil.",2.290734052658081],["A decomposer is an organism that breaks down dead plants and animals and returns nutrients to the soil.",2.290734052658081],["When plants and animals die, decomposers break down the proteins of dead organisms, changing them into ammonia which can be used by plants or returned to the air.",2.2881019115448],["When plants and animals die, decomposers break down the proteins of dead organisms, changing them into ammonia which can be used by plants or returned to the air.",2.2881019115448],["Other food chains are based on decomposers--organisms that feed on dead plants and animals.",2.258802652359009],["a. Plant and animal remains are the source of organic matter in the decomposer food chain;",2.258802652359009],["Other food chains are based on decomposers--organisms that feed on dead plants and animals.",2.258802652359009],["What about the decomposers? When animals or plants die, nutrients in their bodies are returned to the environment by decomposers. The nutrients and minerals are released into the soil and recycled by other plants, producing more plant material, which feeds more rabbits and eventually more foxes.",2.257297992706299],["Decomposers play a vital role in the food chain and give it a cyclical nature. Plants need sunlight and nutrients in the soil for photosynthesis, and decomposers are responsible for returning nutrients from dead organic matter back into the soil; the living things at the beginning of the food chain rely on processes at the end of the chain. Elements such as carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus enter the food chain as plants obtain them from the soil. Animals acquire these substances by eating plants or other animals. Through a process of decomposition or mineralization, decomposers, particularly bacteria, return these elements to the soil in their inorganic state, so they are constantly recycled through the ecosystem.",2.2469913959503174],["The decomposers break down dead matter (plant and animal) and return nutrients to the soil which helps the producers grow.",2.224015712738037],["When producers and consumers die, bacteria and other microorganisms in the soil feed on them. These bacteria and other microorganisms are called decomposers . The decomposers break down chemicals in dead organisms and return important nutrients to the environment. Plants then use these nutrients in the soil and water to make food and grow. In this way, plants and animals are dependent on one another and on their environment for survival.",2.1953682899475098],["Plants need sunlight and nutrients in the soil for photosynthesis, and decomposers are responsible for returning nutrients from dead organic matter back into the soil; the living things at the beginning of the food chain rely on processes at the end of the chain.",2.1721391677856445],["Decomposers (or saprotrophs) are heterotrophic organisms that obtain their energy from deceased organisms. They, themselves, are organisms (often fungi, Earthworms or bacteria) that break down organic materials to gain nutrients and energy. Decomposition is a natural process that will happen by default, but decomposers accelerate the process. The role that decomposers perform in an ecosystem is extremely important. Without them, organic matter would be piled up on our grounds from past years. In addition, some plants would not receive the required nutrients and might die. When an organism dies, it leaves behind nutrients that are locked tightly together. A scavenger may eat the carcass, but its feces still contains a considerable amount of unused energy and nutrients. Decomposers will later induce further breakdown. This last step releases raw nutrients (such as nitrogen, phosphorus, and magnesium) in a form usable to plants, which quickly incorporate the chemicals into their own cells. This process greatly increases the nutrient-load of an ecosystem, in turn allowing for greater biodiversity. An example of decomposers is the numerous fungi on the right; they break down the dead tree converting its remaining stored energy to free energy. Although, Decomposers are generally located on the bottom of ecosystem diagrams such as food chains, food webs, and energy pyramids; the decomposers in the biosphere are crucial to the environment. By breaking down dead material, they provide some of the required nutrients that other organisms need to survive. Types of Decomposers Fungi Earthworms Plants are producers Animals are consumers",2.141840696334839],["Decomposers play a key role in making nutrients available to organisms. After scavengers eat dead organisms, they almost always leave some parts of the dead animal or plant behind. Decomposers complete the process of breaking down dead organisms. They convert dead organisms into nutrients and carbon dioxide, which they respire into the air. These left over nutrients are then available for other organisms to use. Without decomposers, life on Earth would not be able to continue. Dead tissue would remain as it is and eventually nutrients would run out. Decomposers break apart tissue and return the nutrients to the ground. Without decomposers, life on earth would have died out long ago.",2.138106346130371],["Other organisms that perform similar roles to decomposers and scavengers are the detrivores. A detrivore is a plant or animal that feeds on the organic remains or other organic debris from other organisms. They recycle detritus, which is decomposing organic material and return it to the food chain.",2.118865489959717],["Other organisms that perform similar roles to decomposers and scavengers are the detrivores. A detrivore is a plant or animal that feeds on the organic remains or other organic debris from other organisms. They recycle detritus, which is decomposing organic material and return it to the food chain.",2.118865489959717],["Other organisms that perform similar roles to decomposers and scavengers are the detrivores. A detrivore is a plant or animal that feeds on the organic remains or other organic debris from other organisms. They recycle detritus, which is decomposing organic material and return it to the food chain.",2.118865489959717],["One common food pattern is called the grazing food chain. Grasses and other green plants (the producers) using solar energy are the base of this food chain. They are eaten by herbivores (the consumers). Herbivores are consumed by carnivores or by omnivores. Another common food chain, called the detritus food chain, begins with the remains of plants and animals. These remains are slowly broken down by organisms, such as bacteria and fungithe decomposers. In this process, nutrients are returned to the soil and then used again by plants.",2.1148242950439453],["Decomposers complete the food chain cycle, and when nutrients return to the soil, a new food chain begins.",2.1134746074676514],["The environment is full of different animals with different needs.  Students should learn early how these organisms are grouped.    Every organism needs to find food, which is the basis of the food chain (single chain) and food web (many chains).   In food webs there are many layers.  There are decomposers who make areas ready for producers to grow.  Decomposers can use their eating habits to produce heat (bacteria, actinomycetes) that further break down organic debris that helps other organisms like fungi to adsorb nutrients.",2.096799612045288],["Ask if anyone can name an animal that eats plants?  Is there any animal that might eat the plant-eater?  Both these animals consume food energy, one from the plant, the other by eating a plant-eater. They are called consumers.  primary consumers eat plants and secondary consumers eat plant-eaters.  What happens to plants and animals when they die? They are consumed or broken down by organisms called decomposers. Decomposers are important because they recycle nutrients for use by plants.",2.091383218765259],["Regardless of the food chain in which they are incorporated, nutrients are eventually returned to their inorganic form following organic matter decomposition by microorganisms within the decomposer compartment (Stanton 1988).",2.078897476196289],["Energy begins with the sun. It helps make the grass grow. The grass is a producer because it provides food for many animals. The grasshopper is a consumer and eats the grass. The snake consumes (eats) the grasshopper and is then eaten by the hawk. When the hawk dies, his body is broken down into nutrients (food) by fungi which is a decomposer. This provides nutrients for the grass. The food chain is a cycle of energy.",2.0706369876861572],["Decomposers like fungi and bacteria complete the food chain. They turn organic wastes, such as decay ing plants, into inorganic materials, such as nutrient-rich soil. Decomposers complete the cycle of life, returning nutrients to the soil or oceans for use by autotrophs. This starts a whole new food chain. ",2.0611634254455566],["Decomposers, like fungi and bacteria, complete the food chain. Decomposers turn organic waste s, such as decay ing plants, into inorganic materials, such as nutrient-rich soil. They complete the cycle of life, returning nutrients to the soil or oceans for use by autotrophs. This starts a whole new series of food chains.",2.0611634254455566],["When plants and animals die , they become food for decomposers like bacteria and worms .",2.0537123680114746],["When plants and animals die,they become food for decomposers like bacteria and worms.",2.0537123680114746],["At the end of the food chain, decomposers such as bacteria and fungi break down dead plant and animal material into simple nutrients.",2.0531065464019775],["At the end of the food chain, decomposers such as bacteria and fungi break down dead plant and animal material into simple nutrients.",2.0531065464019775],["Saprotrophic organisms, also known as decomposers located on the bottom of the food chain, help decompose dead organic matter, which further breaks down into carbon dioxide and essential nutrients, such as nitrogen, phosphorus, and magnesium.",2.052990198135376],["In all food chains decomposers are the final element for they are the last organisms to make use of the original energy input. After invertebrates have broken down the main components of a dead animal, it remains for the bacteria to bring about the final stages of decomposition in which nutrients are returned to the soil (or water). The energy originally produced by the plants in the food chain is dispersed along the way as heat loss, and energy used to sustain life.",2.0437095165252686],["Animals are not essential to a food chain, but plants and decomposers are.)",2.0410895347595215],["Decomposers are living things that get their energy from plants and animals that have died.  Earthworms, bacteria , and mushrooms are decomposers.  They break down the matter in dead organisms into smaller and smaller bits.  Many of the nutrients return to the soil.",2.034963607788086],["Remember on the Home Page, there was this picture, of a food chain with only 3 organisms? Well, to my left is a picture of a full food chain. The sun, water, and nutrients from the mushrooms, (decomposers), helps the grass make it's own food (photosynthesis) which provides energy for the grass. Then the grasshopper, a herbivore, eats the grass obtaining some energy. Then the mouse, possibly an omnivore, eats the grasshopper, containing some of the energy left. So on and so on happens, and it never stops, unless a one of the species becomes extinct. Do you see the part of the food chain where the mushroom \"supposedly\" eats the hawk? Well, the mushrooms \"consume the wastes\" of the hawk. That means that when the hawk dies, the remains are \"eaten\" by decomposers, like the mushrooms.",2.033257007598877],["Decomposers are organisms, like bacteria, fungi, and some insects, that help break down dead plant and animal material. Decomposers help return (recycle) nutrients and minerals to the natural system.",2.011050224304199],["1.       Decomposers (Nature_s recyclers: the degradation of organic material and the recycling of its nutrients).As decomposers, the fungi are vitally important members to the plant and animal kingdoms. When a dead leaf drifts to the forest floor or an animal dies of disease, fungal and bacterial spores floating in the air have already settled on it. These spores quickly germinate and begin to break down the dead organism, releasing small organic molecules that can be used as food, as well as minerals that may be absorbed by the decomposer or by nearby plants.",2.0030226707458496],["Chapter 42 Ecosystems (Sections 42.1 - 42.6) 42.1 Too Much of a Good Thing Human activities can disrupt nutrient cycles that have been operating since long before humans existed Phosphorus is often a limiting factor for aquatic producers, and sudden addition of phosphorus (eutrophication) causes algal blooms that cloud water and threaten aquatic species eutrophication Nutrient enrichment of an aquatic ecosystem Experiment: Phosphorus Enrichment Fig. 42.1, p. 709 nitrogen, carbon, phosphorus added nitrogen, carbon added Experiment: Phosphorus Enrichment 42.2 The Nature of Ecosystems In ecosystems, organisms and their environment interact through a one-way flow of energy and a cycling of nutrients Ecosytems require ongoing inputs of energy (open systems) Nutrients taken up by producers are returned to the environment by decomposers, then taken up again Energy Flows, Nutrients Cycle Light energy that enters the system returns to the environment as heat Nutrients are continually recycled Fig. 42.2, p. 710 heat energy Consumers animals; fungi; heterotrophic protists, bacteria, and archaeans materials cycling Producers plants; photosynthetic protists and bacteria energy in chemical bonds light energy Energy Flows, Nutrients Cycle Producers plants; photosynthetic protists and bacteria light energy Fig. 42.2, p. 710 heat energy Consumers animals; fungi; heterotrophic protists, bacteria, and archaeans materials cycling energy in chemical bonds Stepped Art Energy Flows, Nutrients Cycle ANIMATION: One-way energy flow and materials cycling To play movie you must be in Slide Show Mode PC Users: Please wait for content to load, then click to play Mac Users: CLICK HERE Primary Producers and Production An ecosystem runs on energy captured by primary producers primary producer (autotroph) An organism that obtains energy and nutrients from inorganic sources to build organic compounds primary production Rate at which producers capture and store energy Varies by ecosystem, season, and nutrient availability The Roles of Consumers Consumers are described by their diets: Herbivores (plants) Carnivores (animal flesh) Parasites (tissues of a living host) Omnivores (plants and animals) Detritivores (detritus) Decomposers (waste and remains) Key Terms consumer Organism that obtains energy and carbon by feeding on tissues, wastes, or remains of other organisms detritivore Consumer that feed on small bits of organic material decomposer Organism that feeds on biological remains and breaks organic material down into its inorganic subunits Energy Flow and Nutrient Cycling Heat energy is not recycled: Energy captured by producers is converted to bond energy in organic molecules, and released by metabolic reactions that give off heat Nutrients are recycled: Producers take up inorganic molecules (nutrients) from the environment to form organic molecules Decomposers break down organic molecules and return nutrients to the environment ANIMATION: The role of organisms in an ecosystem To play movie you must be in Slide Show Mode PC Users: Please wait for content to load, then click to play Mac Users: CLICK HERE ANIMATION: Food chain To play movie you must be in Slide Show Mode PC Users: Please wait for content to load, then click to play Mac Users: CLICK HERE 42.3 Food Chains Food chains describe how energy and materials are transferred from one organism to another food chain Description of who eats whom in one path of energy in an ecosystem – transfer of energy to higher trophic levels trophic level Position of an organism in a food chain A Food Chain First trophic level (primary producer): Autotroph (grass) converts light to chemical energy Second trophic level (primary consumer): Grasshopper eats grass Third trophic level (second-level consumer): Bird eats grasshopper Fourth trophic level (third-level consumer): Coyote eats bird A Food Chain Fig. 42.3, p. 711 First Trophic Level Primary producer Second Trophic Level Primary consumer Third Trophic Level Second-level consumer Fourth Trophic Level Third-level consumer big bluestem grass grasshopper coyote sparrow A Food Chain Fig. 42.3.1, p. 711 A Food Chain Fig. 42.3.2, p. 711 A Food Chain Fig. 42.3.3, p. 711 A Food Chain Fig. 42.3.4, p. 711 A Food Chain Food Chain Limits Energy captured by producers usually passes through no more than four or five trophic levels The length of food chains is restricted by the inefficiency of energy transfers Only 5-30% of energy in an organism at one trophic level ends up in tissues of an organism at the next trophic level 42.4 Food Webs Food chains of an ecosystem cross-connect as a food web Food web structure reflects environmental constraints and the inefficiency of energy transfers among trophic levels food web Set of cross-connecting food chains Types of Food Chains Food webs include two types of interconnecting food chains: grazing food chain Energy transferred from producers to herbivores (grazers) detrital food chain Energy transferred directly from producers to detritivores (worms or insects) Major food chain in land ecosystems Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4, p. 712 Detritivores and decomposers (nematodes, annelids, saprobic insects, protists, fungi, bacteria) purple saxifrage This is just part of the buffet of primary producers. Parasitic consumers feed at more than one trophic level. lemming Major parts of the buffet of primary consumers (herbivores) flea ermine snowy owl gyrfalcon A sampling of carnivores that feed on herbivores and one another arctic fox arctic wolf human (Inuk) grasses, sedges arctic willow mosquito Second Trophic Level Higher Trophic Levels vole arctic hare First Trophic Level Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.1, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.2, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.3, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.4, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.5, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.6, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.7, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.8, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.9, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.10, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.11, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.12, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.13, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.14, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4, p. 712 lemming Major parts of the buffet of primary consumers (herbivores) Second Trophic Level vole arctic hare Stepped Art ermine snowy owl gyrfalcon A sampling of carnivores that feed on herbivores and one another arctic fox arctic wolf human (Inuk) Higher Trophic Levels purple saxifrage This is just part of the buffet of primary producers. grasses, sedges arctic willow First Trophic Level Detritivores and decomposers (nematodes, annelids, saprobic insects, protists, fungi, bacteria) Parasitic consumers feed at more than one trophic level. flea mosquito Arctic Food Web ANIMATION: Food webs To play movie you must be in Slide Show Mode PC Users: Please wait for content to load, then click to play Mac Users: CLICK HERE Trophic Interactions in Ecosystems Understanding links in food webs helps ecologists predict how ecosystems respond to change Computer models show that all species in an ecosystem are closely linked by trophic interaction Even in large communities with many species, 95% of species are within three links of one another A Land Food Web ANIMATION: Rainforest food web To play movie you must be in Slide Show Mode PC Users: Please wait for content to load, then click to play Mac Users: CLICK HERE BBC Video: Seed Banks Helping to Save Our Fragile Ecosystem BBC Video: The Vanishing Honeybee’s Impact on Our Food Supply BBC Video: What is the Environmental Cost for Your Food? 42.5 Ecological Pyramids Ecological pyramid diagrams illustrate the inefficiency of transfers between trophic levels A biomass pyramid shows amounts of organic material in bodies of organisms at each trophic level at a specific time An energy pyramid shows energy flow through each trophic level in a given interval Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Fig. 42.6, p. 713 Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Fig. 42.6a, p. 713 A Biomass pyramid (grams per square meter) 809 detritivores (crayfish) and decomposers (bacteria) top carnivores (gar and bass) 1.5 11 37 5 carnivores (smaller fishes, invertebrates) herbivores (plant-eating fishes, invertebrates, turtles) producers (algae and aquatic plants) Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Fig. 42.6a, p. 713 detritivores (crayfish) and decomposers (bacteria) 5 A Biomass pyramid (grams per square meter) 809 producers (algae and aquatic plants) 11 carnivores (smaller fishes, invertebrates) top carnivores (gar and bass) 1.5 37 herbivores (plant-eating fishes, invertebrates, turtles) Stepped Art Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Fig. 42.6b, p. 713 Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Fig. 42.6b, p. 713 detritivores + decomposers = 5,060 21 carnivores 3,368 383 top carnivores 20,810 producers herbivores B Energy flow pyramid (kilocalories per square meter per year) Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Fig. 42.6b, p. 713 detritivores + decomposers = 5,060 20,810 producers B Energy flow pyramid (kilocalories per square meter per year) 21 top carnivores carnivores 383 3,368 herbivores Stepped Art Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Food and Energy Feeding a population of meat-eaters requires far greater crop production than sustaining a population of vegetarians A person who eats a plant food gets most of the calories in that food When plant food is used to grow livestock, only a small percentage of the plant’s calories ends up in meat Key Concepts Organization of Ecosystems A one-way flow of energy and the cycling of raw materials among species maintain an ecosystem Nutrients and energy are transferred in a stepwise fashion through food chains that interconnect as complex food webs ANIMATION: Energy flow at Silver Springs To play movie you must be in Slide Show Mode PC Users: Please wait for content to load, then click to play Mac Users: CLICK HERE 42.6 Biogeochemical Cycles Elements essential to life move between a community and its environment in a biogeochemical cycle biogeochemical cycle A nutrient moves between environmental reservoirs and in and out of food webs Chemical and geologic processes move elements to, from, and among environmental reservoirs (rocks, sediments, water, atmosphere) Biogeochemical Cycles Fig. 42.7, p. 714 Nonliving environmental reservoirs Seawater and fresh water Atmosphere Rocks and sediments Living organisms Biogeochemical Cycles Key Concepts Biogeochemical Cycles In a biogeochemical cycle, a nutrient moves relatively slowly among its environmental reservoirs The reservoirs may include air, water, and rocks Nutrients moves more quickly into, through, and out of food webs",1.9950801134109497],["The series of organisms of an ecosystem through which the food and energy present in it and  passes with each member is called food chain. A food chain consists of producers (green plants), consumers (animals and man) and decomposers (micro organisms). Basically there are two types of food chains: grazing food chain and detritus food chain.",1.9815675020217896],["Finally, we discuss how the sun's energy is passed on from the rabbit and the grass to the decomposers when the rabbit and grass dies. The decomposers (fungi and bacteria) help break down dead organisms and return (recycle) nutrients back to the soil for new plants. ",1.9699124097824097],["Plants and animals not used in the grazing food chain are part of the decomposer food chain.",1.9429939985275269],["Plants and animals not used in the grazing food chain are part of the decomposer food chain.",1.9429939985275269],["When plants and animals die and decay, the nutrients get recycled by the decomposers so that other plants can use them as they grow.",1.942028284072876],["When plants or animals die, the nutrients and energy that is stored in their bodies is broken down by decomposers and put back into the soil for plants to use.",1.942028284072876],["When plants and animals die and decay, the nutrients get recycled by the decomposers so that other plants can use them as they grow.",1.942028284072876],["When plants or animals die, the nutrients and energy that is stored in their bodies is broken down by decomposers and put back into the soil for plants to use.",1.942028284072876],["The Producers, Consumers, Decomposers Game- 5th Grade Standard - 4-5 LS2C Plants and animals are related in food webs with producers (plants that make their own food), consumers (animals that eat producers and/or other animals), and decomposers (primarily bacteria and fungi) that break down wastes and dead organisms, and return nutrients to the soil",1.9351094961166382],["The Producers, Consumers, Decomposers Game- 5th Grade Standard - 4-5 LS2C Plants and animals are related in food webs with producers (plants that make their own food), consumers (animals that eat producers and/or other animals), and decomposers (primarily bacteria and fungi) that break down wastes and dead organisms, and return nutrients to the soil",1.9351094961166382],["heterotrophs that obtain energy by consuming organic wastes of organisms and dead organisms. Although decomposers are often missing from food chain and food web drawings they can actually be present at each trophic level. Fungi and bacteria are key decomposers in many ecosystems, which are also called saprophytes or saprobes. Another type of decomposer is detritivore, an animal that feed on detritus, dead decaying plant and animals parts and fecal matter. Decomposers main role is to recycle nutrients they obtained from dead organisms and their wastes back into the ecosystem by making them available to producers. The materials such as carbon and nitrogen are constantly being recycles, but the energy is not.",1.924960970878601],["When organisms die, decomposers help break down their tissues, returning some of the nutrients to the environment where they can be recycled into new life-forms.",1.9204028844833374],["When organisms die, decomposers help break down their tissues, returning some of the nutrients to the environment where they can be recycled into new life-forms.",1.9204028844833374],["The organisms in a food chain occupy different niches. Plants are producers, because they can make their own food from the energy of the sun. Animals are consumers, because they can only get their food by eating other organisms. The species at the top of a food chain that is not eaten by anything else is known as an apex consumer. Decomposers are a special type of consumer that breaks down dead organisms and returns those nutrients into the ecosystem for producers to use.",1.9198532104492188],["Food chain is defined as the series of organisms which are responsible for production of food, energy and their passage. There are two types of food chains, Grazing food chain and Detritus food chain. A food chain consist of producers, consumers and decomposers. The main difference between grazing food chain and detritus is, grazing food chain starts with green plants which are actually the producers. On the other hand, detritus food chain starts with dead organic matter which is eaten away by animals and then these animals are ultimately eaten away by other animals.",1.913642168045044],["Draw an arrow from producer to consumer on the board. Tell the children that when the plant eater is eaten by another animal, the energy moves from that consumer to another consumer. Write consumer 2 on the board and draw an arrow from consumer to consumer 2. Ask: What do you think happens to the energy when consumer 2 dies? (Accept all answers.) Tell the students that plants and animals called decomposers break down the dead body and recycle its nutrients into the soil or water so plants can use it to grow and make more food. Write decomposer on the board. Draw an arrow from consumer 2 to decomposer and an arrow from decomposer back to producer, forming a cycle. Tell the students that this cycle is how energy moves through a food chain. Ask: What is a food chain? (plants and animals linked together because each one is food for the next)",1.9133782386779785],["Decomposers in the desert ecosystem recycle the nutrients in the dead organisms back into the soil. When a plant or animal dies, the nutrients and energy are entrapped in their bodies. Decomposers feed on these carcasses, and leave behind unused energy and nutrients, which are present in both unconsumed portions like bones, feathes or fur in case of animals and  in  wood and other indigestable materials in case of plants. Decomposers convert all organic matter into carbon dioxide and nutrients in a form usable to plants. The raw nutrients are  mainly composed of nitrogen, phosphorus, and magnesium. Plant cells incorporate these chemicals into their cells during photosynthesis. Therefore the nutrients are resupplied and form primary energy production. These nutrients are useful and support the growth of producers . Soil bacteria, fungus, worms, and  mushrooms are some of the decomposers of the desert ecosystem.",1.911264419555664],["All organisms, dead or alive, are potential food sources for other organisms. A caterpillar eats a leaf, a robin eats the caterpillar, a hawk eats the robin. Eventually, the tree and the hawk also die and are consumed by decomposers. Organisms in an ecological community are related to each other through their dependence on other organisms for food. In a food chain a producer is eaten by a herbivore that is in turn eaten by a carnivore. Eventually, the carnivore dies and is eaten by a decomposer. For example, in a lake, phytoplankton are eaten by zooplankton and zooplankton are eaten by small fish. The small fish are eaten by large fish. The large fish eventually die and decompose. Nothing goes to waste. Food chains are channels for the oneway flow of solar energy captured by photosynthesis through the living components of ecosystems. Food chains are also pathways for the recycling of nutrients from producers, through herbivores, carnivores, omnivores, and decomposers, finally returning to the producers. The perfectly linear relations represented by food chains are almost never found in natural ecosystems. Although all organisms have somewhat specialized diets, most can eat a variety of different foods. Thus, each trophic level appears as part of several different interconnected food chains. These food chains combine into highly complex food webs. As with food chains, a food web's source of energy is the sun. The solar energy is harvested by producers such as green plants or algae. These producers are known as autotrophs or photosynthesizing autotrophs. Almost all other organisms obtain their energy, directly or indirectly, from the sun. The exceptions are the communities found around deep ocean thermal vents, which are supported by various bacteria that convert heat energy into stored chemical energy. These bacteria are known as chemotrophs or chemosynthetic autotrophs. Autotrophs are always found at the first trophic level. In an ecosystem this trophic level may include monerans, protists, and several different phyla of plants. They can all be placed at the first trophic level because they all have the same source of energy, and the entire food web depends on the energy harvested by them. For example, in a grazing food web, a herbivore eats living plant tissue and is eaten in turn by an array of carnivores and omnivores. Herbivores and the carnivores that prey on them are known as heterotrophs. In contrast, a detrivore (also a heterotroph) harvests energy from dead organic material and provides energy for a separate food chain. Each step in a food web or food chain involves a transfer of matter and energy (in the form of chemical bonds stored in food) from organism to organism. Thus food webs are energy webs because the relationships represented by connections in the web represent the flow of energy from a group of organisms at one trophic level to another group of organisms at a different level. Because energy is lost (as waste heat) at each step, food chains rarely involve more than four or five steps or trophic levels. At each level the organisms waste much energy in the form of heat generated by normal activity. Only a fraction is stored as food or used for growth. Only about 10 percent of the food entering a link is available for the next organism in the chain. After about five links, there is insufficient energy to support a population of organisms (other than decomposers). For example, in the food chain starting with diatoms and ending with killer whales, only about 0.01 percent of the initial energy stored by the diatoms is delivered to the killer whales. Energy flow through a food web depends greatly on the nature of the producers at the first trophic level. These are usually photosynthetic plants, phytoplankton, or algae. In forest ecosystems, trees are the largest and most abundant organism. They determine the physical structure of the ecosystem, and they can be eaten directly by small or even very large animals. However, much of the matter and energy harvested by the trees goes to build a supporting structure. These supporting structures are composed of cellulose and other wood fibers that are poor sources of energy (although they may be good sources of valuable minerals and other nutrients). In contrast, grasses do not invest much energy in supporting structures, so more energy is available per kilogram of plant material present to the grazers that obtain energy from plants. Consequently, all of the aboveground parts of the grass plants are eaten by herbivores. Energy spreads out through the food web, from the lowest trophic level to the highest. At the \"top of the food chain,\" large carnivores harvest the remaining energy. However, all things eventually die, no matter where they are in the food web, and the dead organic matter accumulates in the soil, lake bottom, or forest floor. This detritus becomes the basis for a completely different ecosystem, the detritus food web. Detritus feeders and decomposers harvest solar energy from the detritus by breaking down the organic material into simpler organic compounds and inorganic compounds. By this process, the matter is recycled and made available for reuse by plants. The detritus food web is vitally important to all ecosystems on Earth. Without it, dead organic matter would accumulate and bury everything. Humans are omnivores. They can operate on several trophic levels, eating plants, insects, mammals, birds, fish, mollusks, and many other organisms. Humans can also shorten the food chain when resources are scarce. In areas of the world where the population may be straining resources, people commonly increase the total food supply by eliminating one or more steps in the food chain. For example, to obtain more energy humans can switch from eating herbivores that obtain their energy from cereal grains to eating the cereal grains themselves. The food web does not tell us everything there is to know about the complex biological communities called ecosystems. Not all relationships are equally important in these dynamic, evolving communities. Food webs contain both strong and weak links. Weak links can often be broken with little impact on the community. On the other hand, some species have a disproportionately large effect on the community in which they occur. Called key-stone species, they help to maintain diversity by controlling populations of species that would otherwise come to dominate the community. Or they may provide critical resources for a wide range of species. For example, in the intertidal communities of the Northwest Pacific coast of North America, the starfish Pisaster ochraceus feeds on the small mussel Mytilus californius. Experiments have shown that when the starfish is artificially removed, the population of mussels explodes, soon covering all available space. Other species are crowded out. The interaction between Pisaster and Mytilus helps to maintain the species diversity of these intertidal communities. Research has shown that ecological communities with complex feeding relationships have greater long-term stability and are less affected by external stresses. This suggests an evolutionary basis for the diverse and complex ecological relationships found in many communities of organisms. However, humans often violate this sound ecological principle in order to increase agricultural productivity by creating artificial ecosystems that contain only one plant, such as corn. These systems are called monocultures. While greater agricultural productivity is possible with monoculture crops, they are very unstable ecosystems. Disease, drought, or a new insect pest can easily destroy an entire year's harvest. see also Biomass; Feeding; Feeding Strategies; Trophic Level. Elliot Richmond Curtis, Helena, and N. Sue Barnes. Biology, 5th ed. New York: Worth, 1989. Miller G. Tyler, Jr. Living in the Environment, 6th ed. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth, 1990. Purves, William K., and Gordon H. Orians. Life: The Science of Biology. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 1987.",1.9008196592330933],["All organisms, dead or alive, are potential food sources for other organisms. A caterpillar eats a leaf, a robin eats the caterpillar, a hawk eats the robin. Eventually, the tree and the hawk also die and are consumed by decomposers. Organisms in an ecological community are related to each other through their dependence on other organisms for food. In a food chain a producer is eaten by a herbivore that is in turn eaten by a carnivore. Eventually, the carnivore dies and is eaten by a decomposer. For example, in a lake, phytoplankton are eaten by zooplankton and zooplankton are eaten by small fish. The small fish are eaten by large fish. The large fish eventually die and decompose. Nothing goes to waste. Food chains are channels for the oneway flow of solar energy captured by photosynthesis through the living components of ecosystems. Food chains are also pathways for the recycling of nutrients from producers, through herbivores, carnivores, omnivores, and decomposers, finally returning to the producers. The perfectly linear relations represented by food chains are almost never found in natural ecosystems. Although all organisms have somewhat specialized diets, most can eat a variety of different foods. Thus, each trophic level appears as part of several different interconnected food chains. These food chains combine into highly complex food webs. As with food chains, a food web's source of energy is the sun. The solar energy is harvested by producers such as green plants or algae. These producers are known as autotrophs or photosynthesizing autotrophs. Almost all other organisms obtain their energy, directly or indirectly, from the sun. The exceptions are the communities found around deep ocean thermal vents, which are supported by various bacteria that convert heat energy into stored chemical energy. These bacteria are known as chemotrophs or chemosynthetic autotrophs. Autotrophs are always found at the first trophic level. In an ecosystem this trophic level may include monerans, protists, and several different phyla of plants. They can all be placed at the first trophic level because they all have the same source of energy, and the entire food web depends on the energy harvested by them. For example, in a grazing food web, a herbivore eats living plant tissue and is eaten in turn by an array of carnivores and omnivores. Herbivores and the carnivores that prey on them are known as heterotrophs. In contrast, a detrivore (also a heterotroph) harvests energy from dead organic material and provides energy for a separate food chain. Each step in a food web or food chain involves a transfer of matter and energy (in the form of chemical bonds stored in food) from organism to organism. Thus food webs are energy webs because the relationships represented by connections in the web represent the flow of energy from a group of organisms at one trophic level to another group of organisms at a different level. Because energy is lost (as waste heat) at each step, food chains rarely involve more than four or five steps or trophic levels. At each level the organisms waste much energy in the form of heat generated by normal activity. Only a fraction is stored as food or used for growth. Only about 10 percent of the food entering a link is available for the next organism in the chain. After about five links, there is insufficient energy to support a population of organisms (other than decomposers). For example, in the food chain starting with diatoms and ending with killer whales, only about 0.01 percent of the initial energy stored by the diatoms is delivered to the killer whales. Energy flow through a food web depends greatly on the nature of the producers at the first trophic level. These are usually photosynthetic plants, phytoplankton, or algae. In forest ecosystems, trees are the largest and most abundant organism. They determine the physical structure of the ecosystem, and they can be eaten directly by small or even very large animals. However, much of the matter and energy harvested by the trees goes to build a supporting structure. These supporting structures are composed of cellulose and other wood fibers that are poor sources of energy (although they may be good sources of valuable minerals and other nutrients). In contrast, grasses do not invest much energy in supporting structures, so more energy is available per kilogram of plant material present to the grazers that obtain energy from plants. Consequently, all of the aboveground parts of the grass plants are eaten by herbivores. Energy spreads out through the food web, from the lowest trophic level to the highest. At the \"top of the food chain,\" large carnivores harvest the remaining energy. However, all things eventually die, no matter where they are in the food web, and the dead organic matter accumulates in the soil, lake bottom, or forest floor. This detritus becomes the basis for a completely different ecosystem, the detritus food web. Detritus feeders and decomposers harvest solar energy from the detritus by breaking down the organic material into simpler organic compounds and inorganic compounds. By this process, the matter is recycled and made available for reuse by plants. The detritus food web is vitally important to all ecosystems on Earth. Without it, dead organic matter would accumulate and bury everything. Humans are omnivores. They can operate on several trophic levels, eating plants, insects, mammals, birds, fish, mollusks, and many other organisms. Humans can also shorten the food chain when resources are scarce. In areas of the world where the population may be straining resources, people commonly increase the total food supply by eliminating one or more steps in the food chain. For example, to obtain more energy humans can switch from eating herbivores that obtain their energy from cereal grains to eating the cereal grains themselves. The food web does not tell us everything there is to know about the complex biological communities called ecosystems. Not all relationships are equally important in these dynamic, evolving communities. Food webs contain both strong and weak links. Weak links can often be broken with little impact on the community. On the other hand, some species have a disproportionately large effect on the community in which they occur. Called key-stone species, they help to maintain diversity by controlling populations of species that would otherwise come to dominate the community. Or they may provide critical resources for a wide range of species. For example, in the intertidal communities of the Northwest Pacific coast of North America, the starfish Pisaster ochraceus feeds on the small mussel Mytilus californius. Experiments have shown that when the starfish is artificially removed, the population of mussels explodes, soon covering all available space. Other species are crowded out. The interaction between Pisaster and Mytilus helps to maintain the species diversity of these intertidal communities. Research has shown that ecological communities with complex feeding relationships have greater long-term stability and are less affected by external stresses. This suggests an evolutionary basis for the diverse and complex ecological relationships found in many communities of organisms. However, humans often violate this sound ecological principle in order to increase agricultural productivity by creating artificial ecosystems that contain only one plant, such as corn. These systems are called monocultures. While greater agricultural productivity is possible with monoculture crops, they are very unstable ecosystems. Disease, drought, or a new insect pest can easily destroy an entire year's harvest. see also Biomass; Feeding; Feeding Strategies; Trophic Level. Elliot Richmond Curtis, Helena, and N. Sue Barnes. Biology, 5th ed. New York: Worth, 1989. Miller G. Tyler, Jr. Living in the Environment, 6th ed. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth, 1990. Purves, William K., and Gordon H. Orians. Life: The Science of Biology. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 1987.",1.9008196592330933],["Decomposers can range from microscopic organisms to large mushrooms. They feed on dead plants and animals. In this way, they consume all other organisms in the food chain. Decomposers include bacteria and fungi. One class of decomposers are called saprobes, which grow in decaying organic matter. An example of a saprobe is a mushroom that grows on a fallen tree. Decomposers serve a critical role in the ecosystem by breaking down organic matter into ammonia and phosphates, helping to recycle nitrogen and phosphorous into the nitrogen and phosphorous geochemical cycles, respectively.",1.8965497016906738],["Every part of an ecosystem is vital to its survival -- from the green plants to furry animals and microscopic bacteria. The group of organisms called decomposers forms the final link in the food chain. They break down dead animals and plants and return vital nutrients to the soil. Some decomposers, like fungi, can be seen without a microscope, but much of the decomposition process is carried out by microscopic bacteria.",1.8917412757873535],["This energy transfer from one species to another can continue several more times, but it eventually ends. It ends with the dead animals that are broken down and used as food or nutrition by bacteria and fungi . As these organisms, referred to as decomposers , feed from the dead animals, they break down the complex organic compounds into simple nutrients. Decomposers play a very important role in this world because they take care of breaking down (cleaning) dead material. There are more than 100,000 different types of decomposer organisms! These simpler nutrients are returned to the soil and can be used again by the plants. The energy transformation chain starts all over again.",1.890344500541687],["Others are decomposers which help with plant nutrient cycling.",1.8893591165542603],["Others are decomposers which help with plant nutrient cycling.",1.8893591165542603],["In addition to producers and consumers, there are also decomposers. These organisms, such as bacteria and fungi, feed on decaying matter. They help the food chain by speeding up the decaying process that releases minerals back into the soil to be absorbed by plants as nutrients .",1.8793610334396362],["24 Decomposers Decomposers are bacteria, microorganisms, fungi or other animals (termites and worms) that feed on decaying matter. These decomposers speed up the decaying process that releases nutrients back into the food chain for absorption by plants. They are Earth’s natural recyclers. What would happen if a forest had no decomposers? Plants would use up all the nutrients in the soil, and the ground would be covered in animal wastes and dead organisms.",1.8701577186584473],["Organic matter is recycled in an ecosystem by decomposers. Decomposers are organisms such as bacteria and fungi that break down the organic matter in the dead bodies of plants and animals. As the decomposers feed from the dead animals, they break down the organic compounds into simple nutrients. These simple nutrients are returned to the soil and can be used again by the plants. The energy transformation chain begins again.",1.846881628036499],["Organic matter is recycled in an ecosystem by decomposers. Decomposers are organisms such as bacteria and fungi that break down the organic matter in the dead bodies of plants and animals. As the decomposers feed from the dead animals, they break down the organic compounds into simple nutrients. These simple nutrients are returned to the soil and can be used again by the plants. The energy transformation chain begins again.",1.846881628036499],["Organic matter is recycled in an ecosystem by decomposers. Decomposers are organisms such as bacteria and fungi that break down the organic matter in the dead bodies of plants and animals. As the decomposers feed from the dead animals, they break down the organic compounds into simple nutrients. These simple nutrients are returned to the soil and can be used again by the plants. The energy transformation chain begins again.",1.846881628036499],["Return to Index Decomposers Bacteria and fungi in the soil are very important because they return nutrients to the soil when they decompose (rot) dead animals and plants.",1.837530493736267],["Whenever a secondary or even a primary consumer dies, it eventually becomes part of the soil. That's because the body of the primary or secondary consumer lays restlessly on the soil which takes time to break down. The decomposers, such as worms, fungi, and bacteria, breaks down the dead animals (and even plants) into fresh new nutrients! These nutrients that broke down from decomposers, are for the producers that need to! One important of a decomposer is the marine worms in the ocean! Worms in the ocean ARE very unusual, but they still contain an important part in a food chain. They break down secondary and even a primary consumer's body to make nutrients!",1.8365745544433594],["Decomposer- Organisms that break down dead plants or animals, returning their nutrients to the soil or air.",1.8325872421264648],["Explain that a decomposer is an organism that breaks down dead plants and animals and returns nutrients to the soil.",1.8325872421264648],["Decomposer - organism that decays or rots plants and animals in place, returning the nutrients to the soil (fungus, mold, bacteria, etc.).",1.8325872421264648],["Decomposer- Organisms that break down dead plants or animals, returning their nutrients to the soil or air.",1.8325872421264648],["As plants capture new energy from the sun and decomposers return nutrients to the ecosystem, organisms in the food web thrive.",1.819623589515686],["As plants capture new energy from the sun and decomposers return nutrients to the ecosystem, organisms in the food web thrive.",1.819623589515686],["Although the species involved vary greatly, most tropical rainforest food chains follow the same general pattern of producers, primary consumers, secondary consumers and decomposers. These food chains all begin with green plants that manufacture their own food through the process of photosynthesis. Called producers, these green plants serve as food for primary consumers, also known as herbivores. Carnivores, or secondary consumers, eat the primary consumers. Organisms called decomposers consume the secondary consumers after they die, which recycles the nutrients back into the soil, where plants can use them to begin the cycle again.",1.8177146911621094],["Many food chains make up a food web. Predators at the end of the food chain die and are eaten by decomposers, which provide soil for producers. Whether it is a food chain or food web, plants and animals need each other. They depend on each other for survival.",1.8149913549423218],["Many food chains make up a food web. Predators at the end of the food chain die and are eaten by decomposers, which provide soil for producers. Whether it is a food chain or food web, plants and animals need each other. They depend on each other for survival.",1.8149913549423218],["Food chains describe what is eaten by whom in nature. There are countless examples, as many as there are different organisms. They show how energy and nutrients flow through ecosystems, from organisms capable of producing their own food, mostly plants, to consumers that eat plants and other consumers, and to decomposers that break down organic material to recycle the components. An example of a food chain might start with a clover plant that is eaten by a mouse. The mouse is eaten by a rattlesnake. A hawk eats the rattlesnake. The hawk eventually dies, and bacteria and fungi decompose the body, recycling the chemicals back into the environment. Fungi aren't capable of making their own food. Their chief value in the food chain lies in decomposing other organisms.",1.8108452558517456],["Decomposers are organisms which cause the decay of dead animals, plants, and protis Feeding Levels and Energy A feeding level is the location of an organism along a food chain and food web.",1.8089067935943604],["> Many of species of worms are decomposers, helping to breakdown dead plants and animals to return nutrients to the soil",1.80741286277771],["> Many of species of worms are decomposers, helping to breakdown dead plants and animals to return nutrients to the soil",1.80741286277771],["A food chain consists of producers (green plants), consumers (animals and man) and decomposers (micro organisms).",1.807042121887207],["Bacteria are the beginning of the world's food chain, and as decomposers, bacteria play \na critical role in recycling organic materials essential to plants and animals.",1.807042121887207],["After scavengers have eaten their fill of dead organic material, the gazelle, decomposers have a turn feasting. There are two types of decomposers, macrodecomposers and microdecomposers. Macrodecomposers are primarily earthworms and insect larvae. Microdecomposers are bacteria and fungi. Both of these decomposers further break down organic matter and extract nutrients. The nutrients are then returned to the soil and used by plants to begin the food chain again. Check out http://www.pbs.org/edens/etosha/fm_dinner.htm for another food chain example.",1.8051737546920776],["There are two types of food chains: the grazing food chain, beginning with autotrophs, and the detrital food chain, beginning with dead organic matter (Smith & Smith 2009). In a grazing food chain, energy and nutrients move from plants to the herbivores consuming them, and to the carnivores or omnivores preying upon the herbivores. In a detrital food chain, dead organic matter of plants and animals is broken down by decomposers, e.g., bacteria and fungi, and moves to detritivores and then carnivores.",1.8008859157562256],["Food Fight - 5th Grade Standard 4-5 LS2C: Plants and animals are related in food webs with producers (plants that make their own food), consumers (animals that eat producers and/or other animals), and decomposers (primarily bacteria and fungi) that break down wastes and dead organisms, and return nutrients to the soil",1.7990763187408447],["Food Fight - 5th Grade Standard 4-5 LS2C: Plants and animals are related in food webs with producers (plants that make their own food), consumers (animals that eat producers and/or other animals), and decomposers (primarily bacteria and fungi) that break down wastes and dead organisms, and return nutrients to the soil",1.7990763187408447],["When plants and animals die, they are broken down by decomposers .",1.784377098083496],["When the animals and plants die, the decomposers complete the cycle.",1.784377098083496],["When the animals and plants die, the decomposers complete the cycle.",1.784377098083496],["A producer is an organism that makes food. These are your plants. They produce sugars and food for the consumers. The plants contain the most energy. A consumer is an …organism that consumes other organisms for energy and food. There are three types of consumers. These are the herbivores (animals that eat only plants), the carnivore (animals which only eat meat), and the omnivores (animals that eat both plants and animals). A decomposer is an organism that breaks down waste and dead organisms into nutrients for the producers. These can be fungi, animals, bacteria, etc... An ecological niche is the role or function the organisms has in its ecosystem. For example, an owl's niche would be that of a hunter in his ecosystem. I hope this helps a bit. Eric Cook (ericcook29@yahoo.com)",1.7790197134017944],["A producer is an organism that makes food. These are your plants. They produce sugars and food for the consumers. The plants contain the most energy. A consumer is an …organism that consumes other organisms for energy and food. There are three types of consumers. These are the herbivores (animals that eat only plants), the carnivore (animals which only eat meat), and the omnivores (animals that eat both plants and animals). A decomposer is an organism that breaks down waste and dead organisms into nutrients for the producers. These can be fungi, animals, bacteria, etc... An ecological niche is the role or function the organisms has in its ecosystem. For example, an owl's niche would be that of a hunter in his ecosystem. I hope this helps a bit. Eric Cook (ericcook29@yahoo.com)",1.7790197134017944],["The main processes of the carbon cycle are photosynthesis, respiration, decomposition, natural rock weathering and fossil fuel combustion. Respiration takes place in plants, animals and decomposers. This process involves the use of oxygen in breaking down organic compounds into carbon dioxide and water. Animals take in oxygen and oxidize their food to return carbon into the atmosphere, while decomposers consume the rotting remains of plants and animals, thereby returning carbon dioxide into the air. Decomposers thrive in soil and water, and they play an important role in the carbon cycle. Aside from breaking down dead matter, they also remove and recycle living organisms’ waste products that are considered as nature’s garbage. They degrade complex organic molecules, which permanently take in carbon and keep it from being useful to organisms, and release inorganic molecules. The nutrients they produce are consumed by green plants, which are eaten by animals. Eventually, the products of plants and animals are broken down again by decomposers.",1.7783583402633667],["The sun is the energy source. The grass is the producer. Mice eat the grass, snakes eat the mice, and hawks eat the snakes. When those plants an animals die, they are broken down by decomposers. The nutrients returned to the soil can be used by the producers.",1.7623519897460938],["When an animal dies it is eaten up by worms, bacteria and other organisms. These so-called decomposers break down animals and plants into small parts and enrich soil so that other plants can grow better. The nutrients of dead animals and plants are converted back to the soil so that plants can use them again.",1.7622289657592773],["A final link in the food chain are decomposers which break down the organic matter of the tertiary consumers (or whichever consumer is at the top of the chain) and release nutrients into the soil .",1.7615883350372314],["Species are related to each other through the role they play in the food chain as producers, consumers, and decomposers. Producers are photosynthesizing plants, consumers are herbivorous or carnivorous animals, and decomposers are organisms (such as bacteria) that break down organic material into minerals, which are eventually used by producers. There are more producers than consumers. The total amount of living matter in any place is called the biomass. When the biomass of plants increases it is measured as the primary productivity: the biomass produced by consumers and decomposers is measured as the secondary productivity.",1.7605113983154297],["Plants and animals are closely interconnected with eachother for food. When decomposer decomposes dead and decayed animals into simpler compounds, these compounds are used by plants to produce food. These foods are then eaten by various herbivorous animals. On the basis of food, organisms are divided into two types which are given below,",1.7573003768920898],["        Decomposers are the final type of organism that will be mentioned. Decomposers are: animal-like protists, bacteria and fungi. Decomposers ingest various animal, plant and microbial wastes and convert them into simple inorganic compounds. This conversion process recycles essential nutrients back into the ocean ecosystem. Decomposers and the dead, organic matter that they feed on are sometimes called detritus. Detrivores feed on detritus, bringing those elements back into the food chain. This is called the microbial loop. (Day 119)",1.7556990385055542],["The food chain starts with energy from the sun, which is captured by plants and converted into fuel through photosynthesis. Primary consumers eat plants, and secondary and tertiary consumers feed on primary consumers. At the end of the chain, decomposers act as the “clean-up crew” -- they consume dead animal carcasses, decaying plant material and waste products from other members of the ecosystem. Earthworms, for example, take in soil and microorganisms and excrete waste filled with nutrients, which are added to the soil. Fungi absorb nutrients from the plants and animals they consume while releasing enzymes that break down dead organic matter.",1.7538518905639648],["nitrogen-fixing bacteria take nitrogen from air and change to form usable by plants, animals take in nitrogen when they consume plants or other animals, when organism dies decomposers break down body and return nitrogen to soil which bacteria changes to gas and gas to air",1.7538211345672607],["nitrogen-fixing bacteria take nitrogen from air and change to form usable by plants, animals take in nitrogen when they consume plants or other animals, when organism dies decomposers break down body and return nitrogen to soil which bacteria changes to gas and gas to air",1.7538211345672607],["The decomposers (fungi and bacteria) help break down dead organisms and return (recycle) nutrients back to the soil for new plants.",1.753151535987854],["poser in the ocean is bacteria. Maybe an animal died because of a disease. When that animal settles to the floor of the ocean, bacteria may decompose it. Another decomposer in the ocean is the sea cucumber. One more oceanic decomposer is the marine worm. Decomposers break up the animal, making it into nutrients for the sea. Decomposers are important to the food chain. If decomposers weren't there, producers would not get any rich nutrients and humus from the soil. These producers would become extinct. Once producers are extinct, the food supply for the primary consumers is cut off. Soon, the primary consumers would decline. Since the primary conusmers would vanish, the food supply would diminish for the secondary consumers, who would slowly die out. Scavengers would do their job on the secondary and primary consumers, but their food supply would run out. The scavengers would die, and the food chain would collapse.",1.7494293451309204],["A food chain is a transfer of energy from one organism to another. It generally begins with the sun's energy being changed into chemical energy by green plants or producers. Consumers eat (get energy from) the producers. Finally, decomposers break down dead or waste matter and return nutrients to be used again by the producers. Arrows in a food chain",1.7482702732086182],["Other critical components of a food web include producers, or plants, which use photosynthesis to transform energy from the sun into sugars that consumers can use. Also important are decomposers, organisms that feed on and break down animal and plant waste and dead organisms. Decomposers, also known as detrivores, make use of energy stored in dead plant and animal tissue. In the process, they release nutrients stored in the plants and animals they break down, cycling the nutrients back into the ecosystem for plants and animals to use.",1.745115876197815],["Decomposers breakdown the dead organic matter they are important because that breakdown and return nutrients to the soil so these nutrients can be used by green plants to make food",1.7444792985916138],["Decomposers breakdown the dead organic matter they are important because that breakdown and return nutrients to the soil so these nutrients can be used by green plants to make food",1.7444792985916138],["When an animal dies it may be eaten by a scavenger._ A scavenger eats the flesh of dead or dying organisms._ Once the scavengers have finished, the cycle will be completed by the decomposers._ Decomposers break down the remains of the organism into elements such as carbon and nitrogen that are returned to the soil._ Living plants then use these substances and the cycle is complete._ Some examples of decomposers are fungi and bacteria.",1.7423739433288574],["Food chain: A list of organisms starting with a producer (usually a plant), followed by the animal that eats the plant, then an animal that eats that animal and so on to the \"top carnivore\" an animal that eats others but is not killed and eaten by any other. Though everything eventually gets \"eaten\" by decomposers when it dies by some other cause. The arrows always point to the animal that does the eating and from the organism that gets eaten, more specifically they indicate the flow of energy.",1.7410234212875366],["17 Fungi and the Environment Harmful Fungi Decompose the food human would eat (competition for our food) Causes diseases in animals and plants Produce toxins (chemicals) that can kill organisms** Helpful Fungi Decomposers- return nutrients to the soil for producers Human food: mushrooms, yeast for bread and brewing, cheese flavor (bleu) Medicines: antibiotics Penicillium and other drugs. Industry: ethanol production- gasoline substitute/additive",1.7398860454559326],["17 Fungi and the Environment Harmful Fungi Decompose the food human would eat (competition for our food) Causes diseases in animals and plants Produce toxins (chemicals) that can kill organisms** Helpful Fungi Decomposers- return nutrients to the soil for producers Human food: mushrooms, yeast for bread and brewing, cheese flavor (bleu) Medicines: antibiotics Penicillium and other drugs.",1.7398860454559326],["When animals or plants die (or when animals defecate), the phosphate may be returned to the soil or water by the decomposers.",1.737236738204956],["When animals or plants die (or when animals defecate), the phosphate may be returned to the soil or water by the decomposers.",1.737236738204956]]