[["Animals_ interactions with nature help shape and maintain natural environments. Grasslands exist because of the close relationship between grasses and grazing animals that don_t allow other plants to flourish. Tree and flowers consistently rely on animals to distribute their pollen and seeds. Earthworms and invertebrates help break down dead remains and recycle their nutrients to enrich the soil. The predator-prey relationship between animals also helps control the animal population as animals are continually preying on other animals. Most importantly, animals influence the nutrient cycles that life depends on. Animals give essential mineral elements in their waste and they help replenish the atmosphere_s carbon dioxide by continuing to breathe, which in turn provides carbon dioxide for plants to undergo photosynthesis. As long as life continues to be a cycle of consuming and replenishing, animals_ interaction with nature is essential to all living things.",1.675579309463501],["(pause, then call on several students for responses) GLOSSARY: abiotic factors - nonliving factors, including water, oxygen, light, temperature, soil, and inorganic and organic nutrients autotrophs - organisms that can make all the organic nutrients they need from inorganic compounds biomass - mass of organisms biosphere - the portion of the earth in which living things exist biotic factors - living factors including all the living organisms in the environment and their effects, both direct and indirect, on other living things \ncarnivores - animals that feed only on other animals commensalism - one organism benefits from a symbiotic relationship and the other is not affected consumers - heterotrophs that must obtain nutrients from other organisms decomposers - break down the remains of plants and animals, releasing substances that can be used by other members of the ecosystem ecosystem - includes a community and its physical environment food chain - a series of organisms through which food energy is passed food web - food chains interconnected at various points forming a food web herbivores - animals that feed only on plants heterotrophs - organisms that cannot make their own nutrients latitude - distance north or south of the equator omnivores - animals that feed an both plants and animals mutualism - both organisms benefit from their association parasitism - one organism benefits from a symbiotic relationship while the other is harmed population - all individuals of a particular species within a certain area predators - attach and kill their prey and feed on their bodies producers - autotrophs that can produce their own nutrients from inorganic compounds pyramid of energy - amount of available energy in an ecosystem saprophytes - organisms that obtain nutrients by breaking down remains of dead plants and animal scavengers - feed on dead animals they find symbiotic relationships - two organisms living in close association and benefit at least one of them RESOURCES: FILMS/VIDEO TAPES: Cycles in Nature: Food Webs Ecological Cycles Succession: Ways Ecosystems Change -three sound filmstrips from National Geographic This is the 3960th time this file has been accessed since 11/16/96.",1.6665613651275635],["Insectivorous plants include the Venus flytrap , several types of pitcher plants , butterworts , sundews , bladderworts , the waterwheel plant , brocchinia and many members of the Bromeliaceae . The list is far from complete, and some plants, such as Roridula species, exploit the prey organisms mainly in a mutualistic relationship with other creatures, such as resident organisms that contribute to the digestion of prey. In particular animal prey organisms supply carnivorous plants with nitrogen, but they also are important sources of various other soluble minerals, such as potassium and trace elements that are in short supply in environments where the plants flourish. This gives them a decisive advantage over other plants, whereas in nutrient-rich soils they tend to be out-competed by plants adapted to aggressive growth where nutrient supplies are not the major constraints.",1.6358177661895752],["There are two types of food chains: the grazing food chain, beginning with autotrophs, and the detrital food chain, beginning with dead organic matter (Smith & Smith 2009). In a grazing food chain, energy and nutrients move from plants to the herbivores consuming them, and to the carnivores or omnivores preying upon the herbivores. In a detrital food chain, dead organic matter of plants and animals is broken down by decomposers, e.g., bacteria and fungi, and moves to detritivores and then carnivores.",1.6330163478851318],["The above food web describes how all the major categories of organism can work to together in an ecosystem. First let’s describe the producers, these are plants and trees the produce energy into the ecosystem. Next the consumer, there are three different types herbivores (deer), carnivores (birds), and omnivores (bears). Then the last category is decomposers, which happen to be like a consumer but they feed off animal dropping and dead organisms. This way it can break down and return the nutrients to the soil. They all complete a cycle which in returns works with the ecosystem making it stronger. With the human population growing they put a potential hazard of killing and damaging the areas. This would then create chaos in the ecosystem, which could cause the food chain to change. Some of the abiotic factors present in this ecosystem as of today are rocks, water, sunlight, wind, and temperature. According to the food chain for the ecosystem in which I have selected, one of the animals in it was a lynx. Lynx eat small prey such as rabbits, fish, mice, and various types of birds. They are prayed on by eagles and owls; also wolves coyotes and cougars. Since the lynx has lived in a temperate forest it has adapted it fur in the winter. Also they have over the years gotten longer legs and larger feet have to hurt better in the snow. The temperate forest is home to many organisms, the web above allowed me to analyze and helped me understand the principles of ecology and how the interactions of different organism can create a biodiversity ecosystem.",1.5399888753890991]]