[["The weekly fructosamine test, introduced by LXN Corporation as the GlucoProtein test, indicates the average of continuous glucose changes over the prior two- to three-week time period.",1.2694967985153198],["Covad recently made some changes that should reduce its average installation time from a month to an estimated two weeks.",1.2507447004318237],["thinking, mulling and meditating what had transpired to cause such great changes in my life in just a two-week period of time.",1.2289847135543823],["Task 6: Identification of Services with significant change in average intra-service time It is anticipated that an additional two weeks would be spent identifying services whose average intra-service time has significantly changed between two time periods by conducting t-tests of differences in mean times between two periods.",1.2197397947311401],["Task 4: Identification of Services with significant change in average anesthesia time It is anticipated that an additional two weeks would be spent identifying services whose average anesthesia time has significantly changed between two time periods by conducting t-tests of differences in mean times between two periods.",1.2197397947311401],["How does the life style of the average person change during this time period?",1.2045252323150635],["Task 4: Identification of Services with significant change in average intra-service time It is anticipated that an additional week would be spent identifying small clinical families whose average intra-service times have significantly changed between two time periods by conducting t-tests of differences in mean times between two periods.",1.18516206741333],["The female will have up to forty babies at one time. Some species will mate only once and they will remain pregnant for the rest of their lives. Adults will live for an average of eight to fifteen months. Cockroaches reproduce on an average of four times per year. Females have a broader abdomen and are more rounded than the male. This constant reproduction adds to their ability to become immune to environment changes or pesticides. The basic structure of the cockroach has, however, remained the same since the middle of the Silurian period almost 365 million years ago. The life cycle of the cockroach is from egg-nymph-adult. This cycle is called simple metamorphosis. It means that the younger nymphs look very similar to the adult and will only differ in size.",1.1806576251983643],["Three to five weeks may have been an average period, with perhaps some additional time allotted for changes, editing, and translation of the score to the screen.",1.176063060760498],["Three to five weeks may have been an average period, with perhaps some additional time allotted for changes, editing, and translation of the score to the screen.",1.176063060760498],["My entire life is going to change after this two- or three-week period.",1.1354613304138184],["My entire life is going to change after this two- or three-week period.",1.1354613304138184],["And, as anyone who has watched a caterpillar become a butterfly knows, some animals experience two very different existences, in effect, living for a time as one creature and then changing into another.",1.1330089569091797],["Butterfly Kits with Live Caterpillars - Live butterfly kits are the BEST SELLING items on our website! Live Caterpillars are in stock year round so you can get caterpillars shipped with your order. Make sure it is between 40 and 85 degrees in your area when you order. These FUN Live Caterpillar Kit projects are the perfect gift for a butterfly or nature lover of any age! Witness the butterfly life cycle close-up with these child-and-insect friendly habitats. Rear the caterpillars and watch the transition as they grow, changes into a chrysalis, and finally emerge as adult Painted Lady butterflies! From caterpillar to butterfly takes around 3 weeks with our butterfly kit. Keep adult butterflies indoors or release outside; absolutely safe to release into the environment. Check out our Science Projects For Kids  using our butterfly kits. Did you know: when you include hands-on science activities like our butterfly kits when teaching kids, that student achievement increases by as much as 40% !  FUN WINTER PROJECTS! Enjoy rearing butterflies ANY time of year, even WINTERTIME! Instructions included with butterfly hatching kit to keep the butterflies inside for their life cycle. See our FAQ page for most common butterfly kit questions. Available only in the Continental U.S. Ages 4+.",1.1313873529434204],["Butterfly Kits with Live Caterpillars - Live butterfly kits are the BEST SELLING items on our website! Live Caterpillars are in stock year round so you can get caterpillars shipped with your order. Make sure it is between 40 and 85 degrees in your area when you order. These FUN Live Caterpillar Kit projects are the perfect gift for a butterfly or nature lover of any age! Witness the butterfly life cycle close-up with these child-and-insect friendly habitats. Rear the caterpillars and watch the transition as they grow, changes into a chrysalis, and finally emerge as adult Painted Lady butterflies! From caterpillar to butterfly takes around 3 weeks with our butterfly kit. Keep adult butterflies indoors or release outside; absolutely safe to release into the environment. Check out our Science Projects For Kids  using our butterfly kits. Did you know: when you include hands-on science activities like our butterfly kits when teaching kids, that student achievement increases by as much as 40% !  FUN WINTER PROJECTS! Enjoy rearing butterflies ANY time of year, even WINTERTIME! Instructions included with butterfly hatching kit to keep the butterflies inside for their life cycle. See our FAQ page for most common butterfly kit questions. Available only in the Continental U.S. Ages 4+.",1.1313873529434204],["Normally, most activities change on the average of two to three times weekly.",1.1305348873138428],["Normally, most activities change on the average of two to three times weekly.",1.1305348873138428],["If you are interested in donating a period of two to three weeks to this important and life-changing event, please call me at my office at 505-984-0928.",1.124360203742981],["Observing toad tadpoles and butterfly caterpillars revealed that some animals change greatly from the time they begin life.",1.1103107929229736],["Observing toad tadpoles and butterfly caterpillars revealed that some animals change greatly from the time they begin life.",1.1103107929229736],["In a nutshell we can say that a Butterfly passes through four stages in its life cycle. Usually it lays eggs on a leaf. When the eggs hatch a small larva emerges and crawls out. This larva of a butterfly is called a caterpillar which starts eating the leaf and grows This is the active stage. During its life it moults a few times. Each time it becomes bigger. Soon it changes into a pupa. This pupa may be hanging on the plant in a small loop of silk. And after a few weeks the pupa turns into a beautiful adult butterfly.",1.0982507467269897],["Briefly, a butterfly starts as an egg. After about 4 to 5 days (some species take up to 3 weeks or longer), the egg hatches and a tiny larva (caterpillar) emerges. The larva starts to eat and will shed its skin 4 to 6 times as it gets bigger and bigger. After about 2 to 4 weeks, the larva will be full-grown and transforms itself into a pupa/chrysalis. Inside the pupa, the caterpillar's body breaks down into a kind of soup and is reorganized into the adult structures of the butterfly! This stage can take between 10 to 15 days. Finally, the adult butterfly emerges from the pupa. Adult butterflies will mate, the female will lay eggs and the life cycle starts over. The whole process is called metamorphosis, which means \"change of form.\"",1.0844621658325195],["At this period in the life history the caterpillars of many butterflies and moths show a change in color.",1.0794941186904907],["At this period in the life history the caterpillars of many butterflies and moths show a change in color.",1.0794941186904907],["The four-stage lifecycle _ _ _ _ _ Mating Common Buckeye Butterflies _ _ _ Unlike many insects, butterflies do not experience a nymph period, but instead go through a pu…pal stage which lies between the larva and the adult stage (the imago). Butterflies are termed as holometabolous insects, and go through complete metamorphosis. _ _ Egg _ Larva, known as a caterpillar _ Pupa (chrysalis) _ Adult butterfly (imago) _ _ It is a popular belief that butterflies have very short life spans. However, butterflies in their adult stage can live from a week to nearly a year depending on the species. Many species have long larval life stages while others can remain dormant in their pupal or egg stages and thereby survive winters.[1] _ Butterflies may have one or more broods per year. The number of generations per year varies from temperate to tropical regions with tropical regions showing a trend towards multivoltinism. _ Egg _ _ _ _ _ Egg of Ariadne merione _ _ _ Butterfly eggs consist of a hard-ridged outer layer of shell, called the chorion. This is lined with a thin coating of wax which prevents the egg from drying out before the larva has had time to fully develop. Each egg contains a number of tiny funnel-shaped openings at one end, called micropyles; the purpose of these holes is to allow sperm to enter and fertilize the egg. Butterfly and moth eggs vary greatly in size between species, but they are all either spherical or ovate. _ Butterfly eggs are fixed to a leaf with a special glue which hardens rapidly. As it hardens it contracts, deforming the shape of the egg. This glue is easily seen surrounding the base of every egg forming a meniscus. The nature of the glue is unknown and is a suitable subject for research. The same glue is produced by a pupa to secure the setae of the cremaster. This glue is so hard that the silk pad, to which the setae are glued, cannot be separated. _ Eggs are usually laid on plants. Each species of butterfly has its own hostplant range and while some species of butterfly are restricted to just one species of plant, others use a range of plant species, often including members of a common family. _ The egg stage lasts a few weeks in most butterflies but eggs laid close to winter, especially in temperate regions, go through a diapause stage, and the hatching may take place only in spring. Other butterflies may lay their eggs in the spring and have them hatch in the summer. These butterflies are usually northern species (Mourning Cloak, Tortoiseshells) _ Caterpillars _ _ _ _ _ Caterpillars of Junonia coenia. _ _ _ Butterfly larvae, or caterpillars, consume plant leaves and spend practically all of their time in search of food. Although most caterpillars are herbivorous, a few species such as Spalgis epius and Liphyra brassolis are entomophagous (insect eating). _ Some larvae, especially those of the Lycaenidae, form mutual associations with ants. They communicate with the ants using vibrations that are transmitted through the substrate as well as using chemical signals.[2][3] The ants provide some degree of protection to these larvae and they in turn gather honeydew secretions. _ Caterpillars mature through a series of stages called instars. Near the end of each instar, the larva undergoes a process called apolysis, in which thecuticle, a mixture of chitin and specialized proteins, is released from the epidermis and the epidermis begins to form a new cuticle beneath. At the end of each instar, the larva moults the old cuticle, and the new cuticle rapidly hardens and pigments. Development of butterfly wing patterns begins by the last larval instar. _ Butterfly caterpillars have three pairs of true legs from the thoracic segments and up to 6 pairs of prolegs arising from the abdominal segments. These prolegs have rings of tiny hooks called crochets that help them grip the substrate. _ Some caterpillars have the ability to inflate parts of their head to appear snake-like. Many have false eye-spots to enhance this effect. Some caterpillars have special structures called osmeteria which are everted to produce smelly chemicals. These are used in defense. _ Host plants often have toxic substances in them and caterpillars are able to sequester these substances and retain them into the adult stage. This helps making them unpalatable to birds and other predators. Such unpalatibility is advertised using bright red, orange, black or white warning colours. The toxic chemicals in plants are often evolved specifically to prevent them from being eaten by insects. Insects in turn develop countermeasures or make use of these toxins for their own survival. This \"arms race\" has led to the coevolution of insects and their host plants.[4] _ Wing development _ _ _ _ _ Detail of a butterfly wing _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Last instar wing disk,Junonia coenia _ _ _ Wings or wing pads are not visible on the outside of the larva, but when larvae are dissected, tiny developing wing disks can be found on the second and third thoracic segments, in place of the spiracles that are apparent on abdominal segments. Wing disks develop in association with a trachea that runs along the base of the wing, and are surrounded by a thin peripodial membrane, which is linked to the outer epidermis of the larva by a tiny duct. _ Wing disks are very small until the last larval instar, when they increase dramatically in size, are invaded by branching tracheae from the wing base that precede the formation of the wing veins, and begin to develop patterns associated with several landmarks of the wing. _ Near pupation, the wings are forced outside the epidermis under pressure from the hemolymph, and although they are initially quite flexible and fragile, by the time the pupa breaks free of the larval cuticle they have adhered tightly to the outer cuticle of the pupa (in obtect pupae). Within hours, the wings form a cuticle so hard and well-joined to the body that pupae can be picked up and handled without damage to the wings. _ Pupa _ _ _ _ _ Chrysalis of Gulf Fritillary _ _ _ When the larva is fully grown, hormones such as prothoracicotropic hormone (PTTH) are produced. At this point the larva stops feeding and begins \"wandering\" in the quest of a suitable pupation site, often the underside of a leaf. _ The larva transforms into a pupa (or chrysalis) by anchoring itself to a substrate and moulting for the last time. The chrysalis is usually incapable of movement, although some species can rapidly move the abdominal segments or produce sounds to scare potential predators. _ The pupal transformation into a butterfly through metamorphosis has held great appeal to mankind. To transform from the miniature wings visible on the outside of the pupa into large structures usable for flight, the pupal wings undergo rapid mitosis and absorb a great deal of nutrients. If one wing is surgically removed early on, the other three will grow to a larger size. In the pupa, the wing forms a structure that becomes compressed from top to bottom and pleated from proximal to distal ends as it grows, so that it can rapidly be unfolded to its full adult size. Several boundaries seen in the adult color pattern are marked by changes in the expression of particular transcription factors in the early pupa. _ Adult or imago _ The adult, sexually mature, stage of the insect is known as the imago. As Lepidoptera, butterflies have four wings that are covered with tiny scales (see photo). The fore and hindwings are not hooked together, permitting a more graceful flight. An adult butterfly has six legs, but in the nymphalids, the first pair is reduced. After it emerges from its pupal stage, a butterfly cannot fly until the wings are unfolded. A newly-emerged butterfly needs to spend some time inflating its wings with blood and letting them dry, during which time it is extremely vulnerable to predators. Some butterflies' wings may take up to three hours to dry while others take about one hour. Most butterflies and moths will excrete excess dye after hatching. This fluid may be white, red, orange, or in rare cases, blue. _ _ From Wikipedia",1.078223466873169]]