[["Soil contains a tremendous number of organisms. They can be classified into micro-, meso-, and macrofauna (small, medium, and large sized). Bacteria and fungi are important microfauna in soil that live on organic matter or on living plants. An acre of grass- land contains 0.5–1 ton of bacteria and 1–2 tons of fungi biomass. The same soil contains approximately 10 tons of living grass roots and 40 tons of “dead” organic matter. Most bacteria and fungi perform useful functions such as the decomposition of plant residues, release of nutrients, and formation of aggregates. Some bacteria such as rhizobia provide nitrogen to plants. Some fungi live in symbiosis with plant roots, facilitating the uptake of immobile nutrients such as phosphorus and potassium. Only few bacteria and fungi have negative effects (e.g., plant diseases). Bacteria and fungi are at the bottom of the soil food web (Figure 12). They are fed upon by other organisms such as protozoa, nematodes, and arthropods (some nematodes feed on plant roots), which are fed on by bigger soil animals. Having a greater diversity of soil organisms helps keep the “bad” bugs under control because predators may also be numerous.",1.7229156494140625],["Arthropods are animals with an exoskeleton, such as insects, crustaceans, and arachnids. In the soil, arthropods are responsible for physically shredding organic materials, stimulating microbial activity, and cycling nutrients. Soil arthropods are categorized based on their function in the soil. Large arthropods like millipedes and termites are shredders that chew up dead plant materials. Herbivores like mole crickets feed on plant roots. Shredders and herbivores can become pests when their populations are high. Predator arthropods, including centipedes and spiders, help to control the populations of other soil arthropods. Some arthropods eat soil fungi and bacteria.",1.666045904159546],["(pause, then call on several students for responses) GLOSSARY: abiotic factors - nonliving factors, including water, oxygen, light, temperature, soil, and inorganic and organic nutrients autotrophs - organisms that can make all the organic nutrients they need from inorganic compounds biomass - mass of organisms biosphere - the portion of the earth in which living things exist biotic factors - living factors including all the living organisms in the environment and their effects, both direct and indirect, on other living things \ncarnivores - animals that feed only on other animals commensalism - one organism benefits from a symbiotic relationship and the other is not affected consumers - heterotrophs that must obtain nutrients from other organisms decomposers - break down the remains of plants and animals, releasing substances that can be used by other members of the ecosystem ecosystem - includes a community and its physical environment food chain - a series of organisms through which food energy is passed food web - food chains interconnected at various points forming a food web herbivores - animals that feed only on plants heterotrophs - organisms that cannot make their own nutrients latitude - distance north or south of the equator omnivores - animals that feed an both plants and animals mutualism - both organisms benefit from their association parasitism - one organism benefits from a symbiotic relationship while the other is harmed population - all individuals of a particular species within a certain area predators - attach and kill their prey and feed on their bodies producers - autotrophs that can produce their own nutrients from inorganic compounds pyramid of energy - amount of available energy in an ecosystem saprophytes - organisms that obtain nutrients by breaking down remains of dead plants and animal scavengers - feed on dead animals they find symbiotic relationships - two organisms living in close association and benefit at least one of them RESOURCES: FILMS/VIDEO TAPES: Cycles in Nature: Food Webs Ecological Cycles Succession: Ways Ecosystems Change -three sound filmstrips from National Geographic This is the 3960th time this file has been accessed since 11/16/96.",1.6648101806640625],["7 What's their Niche _ Rabbits support the predators diets. _ Their digging and grazing controls the growth of plants _ They decompose organic dead organisms back into organic compounds, and return them to the soil allowing nutrient cycles to continue. Mini LopSlime Mold",1.651930809020996],["Animals_ interactions with nature help shape and maintain natural environments. Grasslands exist because of the close relationship between grasses and grazing animals that don_t allow other plants to flourish. Tree and flowers consistently rely on animals to distribute their pollen and seeds. Earthworms and invertebrates help break down dead remains and recycle their nutrients to enrich the soil. The predator-prey relationship between animals also helps control the animal population as animals are continually preying on other animals. Most importantly, animals influence the nutrient cycles that life depends on. Animals give essential mineral elements in their waste and they help replenish the atmosphere_s carbon dioxide by continuing to breathe, which in turn provides carbon dioxide for plants to undergo photosynthesis. As long as life continues to be a cycle of consuming and replenishing, animals_ interaction with nature is essential to all living things.",1.5691779851913452]]