[["7 Plants are producers because they change the energy from the sun into food. Green plants change the sun’s energy into food through photosynthesis. Adaptation means how plants might change or grow that help them survive in their biome environment. The color, size and shape of leaves, length of roots or how close the plant grows to the ground are all examples of plant adaptations to their biome. 7",1.5272806882858276],["An example of an autotroph is a plant. Plants create their food through photosynthesis. They take the energy from the sun which helps them grow.",1.3806477785110474],["find three examples of how plants and animals adapt to natural changes in the environment.",1.1233760118484497],["Some of the natural resources can get renewed, with the help of nature. Such resources are called, renewable natural resources. Solar energy,is the best example, of nature’s renewable resource. The sun bestows us with solar energy, every day, endlessly. We are not going to run out of solar energy, in the conceivable future. It has been naturally harvested, by plants, for millions of years. Plants are the basis of food, for all living beings. Human beings have harvesting solar energy, in a small way, for their other energy needs. Solar energy, has the potential, to become the greatest source of renewable energy, in the future.",1.0425407886505127],["The plant then changes the sun's energy into sugars, which feed the plant and fuel its ability to grow.",1.0322662591934204],["How humans modify plants and environment to grow crops.",1.0179128646850586],["How humans modify plants and environment to grow crops.",1.0179128646850586],["How humans modify plants and environment to grow crops.",1.0179128646850586],["All of the food in island environments starts with plants, which use energy from the sun in order to grow.",1.0158528089523315],["All of the food in island environments starts with plants, which use energy from the sun in order to grow.",1.0158528089523315],["How can we tell if something is alive? Some people may say that if it's alive it moves or changes shape. These statements try to identify life by physical characteristics, which aren't good criteria. Some nonliving things can move, change shape, and grow.(Crystals are examples) On the other hand, not every living thing is always moving, changing shape, or growing. You've seen plants that look lifeless--no leaves or new growth. Suddenly, after a rain, the plant is opening buds, sprouting leaves, and sending up new shoots. People who study biology, called biologists, use these characteristics to determine that something is alive: 1) Living things expend energy to maintain the internal conditions necessary for survival. 2) Living things grow, develop, and reproduce in a repeating cycle of change. 3) Living things respond to changes in the environment (respond to stimuli)in ways that increase their chances of surviving. 4) Living things are made of cells.",0.9889893531799316],["Construct an argument supported by evidence for how increases in human population and per-capita consumption of natural resources impact Earth's systems. [Clarification Statement: Examples of evidence include grade-appropriate databases on human populations and the rates of consumption of food and natural resources (such as freshwater, mineral, and energy). Examples of impacts can include changes to the appearance, composition, and structure of Earth’s systems as well as the rates at which they change. The consequences of increases in human populations and consumption of natural resources are described by science, but science does not make the decisions for the actions society takes.]",0.9869140982627869],["Construct an argument supported by evidence for how increases in human population and per-capita consumption of natural resources impact Earth's systems. [Clarification Statement: Examples of evidence include grade-appropriate databases on human populations and the rates of consumption of food and natural resources (such as freshwater, mineral, and energy). Examples of impacts can include changes to the appearance, composition, and structure of Earth’s systems as well as the rates at which they change. The consequences of increases in human populations and consumption of natural resources are described by science, but science does not make the decisions for the actions society takes.]",0.9869140982627869],["Construct an argument supported by evidence for how increases in human population and per-capita consumption of natural resources impact Earth's systems. [Clarification Statement: Examples of evidence include grade-appropriate databases on human populations and the rates of consumption of food and natural resources (such as freshwater, mineral, and energy). Examples of impacts can include changes to the appearance, composition, and structure of Earth’s systems as well as the rates at which they change. The consequences of increases in human populations and consumption of natural resources are described by science, but science does not make the decisions for the actions society takes.]",0.9869140982627869],["\"This is a good example of the elegance and efficiency of nature in finding ways to help plants grow in diverse environments,\" said Close.",0.9808692932128906],["This is a good example of the elegance and efficiency of nature in finding ways to help plants grow in diverse environments,&quot; said Close.",0.9808692932128906],["Research demonstrates that organisms have additional power to change the environment by altering stocks and flows of water, energy, and elements at both small and large scales (Beerling 2007; Morton 2008). For example, paleoecology documents how the evolution of photosynthetic organisms released oxygen that precipitated iron oxides and then accumulated in the atmosphere, changing its composition and generating Earth’s ozone layer (Cowan 1990). The ozone layer then reduced UV radiation on terrestrial surfaces, and helped to protect organisms emerging onto land from potentially lethal does of UV. Today plant life controls a large fraction of energy and water fluxes between land and the atmosphere. Scientists estimate that in the extreme case of removing all plant life from land, rainfall on Earth would drop by 50% (Kleidon et al. 2007). Animals also play critical roles in influencing the physical properties of ecosystems. For example, recent work shows how underground termites in Kenya increase grassland productivity and biodiversity over large areas by raising soil fertility in evenly spaced circles (Figure 5; Pringle et al. 2010). In the twenty-first century, key ecological questions center on human manipulation of the Earth’s environment. Future research will grapple with conflicts between human needs for food, fuel, and fiber, and preservation of natural biodiversity and ecological function (World Health Organization 2005).",0.975352942943573],["Finally, we will examine recent changes in modern reefs, using the backdrop of natural processes to understand how growing human population and increased exploitation of natural resources have changed the environment in which today's coral reefs struggle to survive.",0.9706067442893982],["Finally, we will examine recent changes in modern reefs, using the backdrop of natural processes to understand how growing human population and increased exploitation of natural resources have changed the environment in which today's coral reefs struggle to survive.",0.9706067442893982],["how different ecosystems distribute the energy received from the sun the role of plant adaptations and photosynthesis in making energy available for use by animals the role of energy in the biogeography of animals and habitats the food and energy requirements of different animals and how these requirements relate to survival in different habitats how humans use energy how human energy use has an impact on natural habitats energy conservation strategies of humans and other animals Does Voyage From The Sun Have an Impact on Students?",0.9671991467475891],["How did this change in the natural environment affect the wheat crop?",0.9594229459762573],["Ecology, for example, studies the relationship between animals, plants, and the environment, helping us understand how the things humans and other animals do can hurt or help Mother Nature.",0.9581989645957947],["#2. Environment is the place of existence for a life form. A deer may live in a forest, and because the forest surrounds the deer, this makes that forest that deer's environment. Environmental science, environmentalism, and ecology are al different things. Environmentalism is a movement in society that is dedicated to defending the Earth's life support systems, to keep them safe for the future, whereas environmental science is a study that covers many fields on how humans interact with both living and nonliving things. Ecology is sort of like this, but the study is looser and more Biology-oriented; it's directed more towards organisms and how they interact with each other and with the environment in which they live, which is typically nonliving. Organisms and species differ in that \"organism\" is an all-encompassing term for a living thing, and species are specific subcategories within being an organism. They have distinctive traits, and, in the event that they have reproductive organs specifically for making more of their species, can produce fertile offspring. These are found in ecosystems: sets of organisms interacting with each other and their nonliving environment, energy is within Ecosystems as well. Sustainability is the ability of a system, be it natural, economical, or cultural, to adapt to changing environments indefinitely. Natural capital is defined as the natural resources and services that keep people and other lifeforms and their economies alive. Resources found in nature (Natural resources) are materials and energy found in nature that have a serviceable or necessary purpose to humans. Natural services are like these, save for that they are functions instead of objects. These services support human life and human economies. Now that we know about natural capital, we can learn about what supports it: solar capital. Solar capital is energy from the sun, basic as it gets. These natural resources, sans the solar one, are being overused by us humans, in a process known as natural capital degradation. What this means for the Earth is that we are using its replenishable resources faster than it can replenish them. Nutrient cycling is a natural service performed by nature, it is the process of recycling chemicals that organisms need from their environments through a series of organisms and back into the environment. This activity is extremely important! Without it, ecosystems would be collapsing all over the place form lack of these necessary chemicals. The golden apples, the grand prize of Sustainability is an environmentally sustainable society. Such a society would justly and equitably meet the needs of its people, both present and future, as well as have the ability to provide those future generations with their basic needs. Finally, natural income is resources, the resources provided by natural capital. They are renewable by nature, and include plants, animals, and soil. ",0.957598090171814],["X1014296747-00121-26891</DOCNO> INQUIRY SKILLS Elementary Science Standards Science Home Page Grade One Science A. INQUIRY SKILLS Students will conduct investigations using the processes of scientific inquiry Access information from a variety of reliable sources Design and conduct observational investigations to solve a problem or answer a question Select and use appropriate tools to collect and record data, measure data, and make observations Ask questions about phenomena, make predictions, and begin to use scientific vocabulary in reporting observations Use classification systems Organize and explain data graphically Interpret data from observations and investigations Construct representative models of phenomena Describe objects, procedures, and results orally Summarize and state conclusions of scientific investigations B. PHYSICAL SCIENCE Students will identify the properties of objects and materials Sort objects using observable properties such as color, shape, texture, temperature, size, smell, and weight Investigate methods for weighing and measuring objects using standard units of measure Contrast two states of water Students will explore the position and motion of objects Explore how pushes and pulls will change the movement of an object (examples: position, speed, and direction) Demonstrate that movement can have different speeds (slow, fast) Manipulate moving objects (vibration) in order to produce different sounds Students will explore characteristics of light, heat, and magnetism Investigate sources of light and heat Explore light and shadows and how shadows change at different times of the day C. LIFE SCIENCE Students will identify the characteristics of organisms Investigate living and nonliving things and compare their attributes Contrast characteristics of animal behaviors (how they eat, move, communicate, and reproduce) Investigate how animals, including people, use their senses to learn about the world Students will understand that organisms have life cycles Grow plants and observe all stages of the life cycle Explain how animals start out as babies, grow into adults, and eventually die Students will study how organisms survive in their environments Compare how the needs of students are similar to the needs of plants and animals D. EARTH AND SPACE SCIENCE Students will identify the properties of earth materials Compare different land forms and bodies of water around the school and community Observe and describe a variety of rocks by their physical properties Students will identify objects in the sky Investigate the sun as the source of light and heat Illustrate types of objects seen in the sky during the day and night Students will describe changes in Earth and sky Record daily weather changes in the local environment (examples: sunny, rainy, fog, snow) Give examples of how weather affects the lives of living things Observe and describe seasonal patterns Find examples of moving air E. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY Students will identify simple technologies Investigate simple technology used in the classroom and home and describe how they help students Students will demonstrate appropriate grade level ability in technology design Design a simple device for moving an object and use the device for transporting the object F. SCIENCE IN PERSONAL AND SOCIAL PERSPECTIVES Students will practice safety \nDemonstrate personal and group safety when engaging in science activities Students will describe characteristics and changes in population Identify different populations within the school, community, human groups, animals, and insects Keep a record of changes in the classroom or outside areas of the school over a period of time (examples: plant growth, animals, birds, snails) Students will identify types of resources Demonstrate wise use of limited classroom materials, supplies, and time Determine that resources can be extended through recycling and conservation Students will describe how environments change Observe and describe changes in the classroom environment Practice ways to improve the environment G. HISTORY AND NATURE OF SCIENCE Students will identify science as a human endeavor Recognize that science is an activity that students can do in the classroom Identify community members who use science in their work",0.957534670829773],["Natural vegetation plant life that grows in a certain area if people have not changed the natural environment.",0.9562655687332153],["Natural vegetation plant life that grows in a certain area if people have not changed the natural environment.",0.9562655687332153],["For example the energy of Sun with the photosynthesis in a plant makes growing possible.",0.9506924152374268],["For example the energy of Sun with the photosynthesis in a plant makes growing possible.",0.9506924152374268],["A healthy ecosystem will have high species diversity and is not likely to be damaged by human interactions, natural disasters, and climate changes. Every species within an ecosystem has a niche, the unique way that a given species uses its environment. New species are discovered every day and the roles they play in their environment to keep it healthy. This idea behind the species within the environment using their niches to keep it healthy can clearly be illustrated in a lake ecosystem. In a lake ecosystem, the sun hits the water and helps the algae grow. Algae use carbon dioxide and water to make sugars and oxygen. The oxygen is useful for any eukaryote organism and the sugars provide food for the algae or anything that eats the algae, such as microscopic organisms. Small fish eat the microscopic animals, absorb oxygen with their gills and expel carbon dioxide, which plants then use to grow. If the algae disappeared, everything else would be impacted. Microscopic animals wouldn't have enough food, fish wouldn't have enough oxygen and plants would lose some of the carbon dioxide they need to grow.",0.9495375156402588],["Discover how animals have helped humans change and grow.",0.9453141093254089],["Discover how animals have helped humans change and grow.",0.9453141093254089],["Students learn how we use natural resources and how we create an environment in which to grow plants and raise animals.",0.9427105784416199],["Students learn how we use natural resources and how we create an environment in which to grow plants and raise animals.",0.9427105784416199],["We have planted Mung Beans and Wheat and are waiting to see how or if they grow.",0.9414660334587097],["We have planted Mung Beans and Wheat and are waiting to see how or if they grow.",0.9414660334587097],["Students will discover the best converter of light energy to biomass MATERIALS: Wheat or Rye seed Oats (whole only, not milled) Corn seed Potting soil 3 half-gallon milk cartons Balance scale Grow-type fluorescent lamp (top of plants should be 7.5-10 cm from lamp) PROCEDURES: Procedure A: Cut the milk cartons in half and poke drainage holes in the bottom of each carton Fill with potting soil and plant the seeds Keep moist Grow the plants under a fluorescent lamp Record your results on a graph Procedure B: After 14 days pull the plants Wash off the dirt and dry with a paper towel Weight the plants and record the results on a graph Procedure C: Dry the plants in the sun until they are crisp Weight plants and record the results on a graph QUESTIONS: Have the students think about and answer how the plants will help the atmosphere on an International Space Station Which plant is the best converter of light energy to biomass?",0.9396129250526428],["Moreover, while the plant manager can control fully the environment in which he produces widgets, the farmer, left to the vagaries of Mother Nature, cannot control the environment in which he grows wheat, corn or milo.",0.9376589059829712],["Outside of the obvious example of rivers and the lake, plants are also categorized under \"sui\", as they adapt to their environment, growing and changing according to the direction of the sun and the changing seasons.",0.9356380701065063],["Biology 100 Melinda Ostraff Ethnobotanist Check Learning suite regularly. Also if you attend earlier lecture if you like. CHARACTERISCS of LIFE -Are composed of cells and exhibit organizxation -Reproduce using DNA - Grow and Develop - actively take in energy from their environment -Sense their environment and respond to it -Regulate constant internal conditions Actively take in Energy from their environment Sense their en Characteristics of Life First organisms were singles cells basic unit of Life contained units reproduce with DNA Reproduction via DNA Livinging organisms reproduce or replicate themselves Single celled organisms Reproduce using DNA Grow and Develop DNA as a blueprint Organisms grow and propagate themselves Take in Energy -Collect energy from their environment Use energy to grow and develop Sense and Respond Detect Danger Senses Maintain Internal Conditions -Can maintain Living Organisms Evolve Individual organisms change rapidly Growth of Individual A seed becomes a tree Groups of Organisms change slowly Species Group of interbreeding organisms Produce fertile offspring Evolution Characteristics of species changing over time. WHAT ABOUT VIRUSES Not composed of cells but meet other 6 characteristics of life WHAT IS SCIENCE? Coming up with theories that help define our observations Using empirical methods to test observations The way we learn about our Universe The study of everything around us Science is the art of creating Explanations for natural Phenomena that could be useful for predicting, and possibly controlling, nature. Rule #1 Reproducibility Scientific explanations are crafted to explain observations, but the observations that are used as a basis for these must be reproducible. Need to be REPRODUCIBLE Rules #2 Predictive Power Scientists prefer explanations Rule #3 Naturalism Scientific explanations do not appeal to the supernatural Only naturalistic explanations are allowed. Rule #4 Uniformitarianism The assumption that past events can be explained in terms of the “natural laws” that apply today. APPLICATIONS How do these four “rules” apply to the work CSIs do? WHAT IS SCIENCE (REVIEW) Science is a body of knowledge, a collection of unified insights about nature, the evidence for the which is an array of facts The unified insights of science are known as theories. A theory is a general set of principles, supported by evidence, that explains some aspect of nature Science can also be defined as a way of learning: a process of coming to understand the natural world through the testing of hypotheses. Observation -> question -> thypthese-> prediction -> Experiment or Observation -> Conclusion Which would leared to either the Hypthesis not supported by conclusion and pose new hypthesis or hypthesis supported make more predictions. LIMITS TO THE SCIENTIFIC METHOD Useful for studying the natural world Scientific analysis cannot: Make moral judgments Although information leading to those judgments may be based on scientific information. Prove or disprove faith-based beliefs Determine personal asesthic values. ------------------- Robert Hooks named Cell! From a thin slie of cork from a tree AntonVan Leeuwenhoek 1680 - Observed teeth plaque, sperm, blood and rainwater through a simple microscope (1 lens) - Looked at cells and saw “animalcules” Thought sperm was little humans The Cell Theory  All organisms are composed of one or more cells Human body - anywhere from 10-100 trillion cells The cell is the basic structural and functional unit of life. All cells come from pre-existing cells Prokaryotic Cells  No nucleus No membrane-bound internal structures Membrane-bound means surrounded by phospholipid bilayer Much smaller than eukaryotic cells According to fossil records - they predate eukaryotic cells Examples: Bacteria and Archaea Eukaryotic Cells Nucleus Membrane-bound organelles (but can also have non-bound) Examples:  Single celled organisms such as yeast Multi-cellular organisms such as plants, animals, fungi, you chuck Norris Purposes of a Factory A factory = Cells  The ell makes proteins (like machines) that help it operate/function Cell Membrane Lipid (Fatty) tail, phosphate head LIPID IS A FAT Oragnaized with lipid tails sandwiched between phosphate heads Hydrophobic v. hydrophilic Fear v. Love Protiens embedded in bilayer Cell Membrane Function Defines outer boundaries of cells Isolates cell’s contents from environment, but is semi permeable (allows select things to enter/exit) Chemical properties of lipids make membrane flexible and self-sealing Many different kinds of proteins Carry out enzymatic functions Serve receptors  Help transport substance across membrane. Nucleus Have nuclear pores that allow things to come in to be transcribed then to go out to become proteins. Found in all eukaryotic cells Double membrane called nuclear invelope Studded with nuclear pores that regulate traffic in and out Inside nucleus is an area where ribosomes are produced Houses the DNA: DNA contains all your genetic information Notes: Nucleus is NOT “the brain” of the cell. It is like a set of instructions or blueprints. Nucleus isn’t a brain it just has info, protein are the things that are smart and do the work. NUCLEUS IS LIKE A LIBRARY/BLUEPRINTS Ribosome All cells need ribosomes--why?  - Proteins Structure consists of proteins which bind with RNA Used as “workbenches” where proteins are assembled Ribosomes are the workers who make the machines. Proteins are the machines…..phopholipd is the gate Mitochondria Found in all eukaryotic cells (plants and Double membrane (outer and inner) Inner membrane carries many of the proteins involved in producing ATP Involved in producing the form of energy the cell can use -ATP Mitochondria is the Powerhouse where we get our energy Chloroplasts Found in specific eukaryotic cells (plants) Double membrane (outer and inner) Special pigment molecules give plants their green color as well as trap energy from the sun Uses the sun’s energy to convert CO@ (carbon dioxide) and water into sugars Used to create sugars Chloroplasts are solar panels Golgi Apparatus The Golgi apparatus takes proteins that have been produced by the ribosomes, packages them, and sends them to different parts of the cell or even to different cells. Golgi Apparatus is a Distribution Center Other Organelles Lysosomes (they are like janitor or recycling centers) Endoplasmic Reticulum (they are like the assembly line for the proteins) Smooth Rough (has ribosomes on them) Why are cells important  We are composed of them Not all cells are the same (even in a human) Cellular Division Living organisms reproduce by two methods Asexual reproduction Offspring are identical to the or i ginal cell or organism Involves inheritance of all genes from one parent Sexual reproduction Offspring are similar to parents, but show variations in traits Involves inheritance of unique sets of genes from two parents We as humans do both. Our cells use asexual but the egg, sperm are sexual. Cells arise only from preexisting cells Cell Division perpetuates life Cell division is the reproduction of cells Virchow’s principle states “Every cell is a cell. Roles of Cell division Asexual reproduction Reproduction of an entire single-celled organism Growth of multicellular organism Prokaryotes reproduce by binary fission Binary fission means “dividing in half” Occurs in prokaryotic cells Two identical cells arise from one cell Steps in the process A single circular chromosome duplicates, and the copies begin to separate from each other The cell elongates and the chromosomal copies separate further The plasma membrane grows inward at the midpoint to divide the cells We need to know chromosome is gonna duplicate and separate The Large, complex chromosomes of eukaryotes duplicate with each cell division Eukaryotic chromosomes are composed of chromatin Chromatin = DNA + proteins To prepare for division. Two parts of chromosomes are called sister chromatids and are linked at a centromere. They are equal by sides. When they separate they are separate chromosomes. Centromere is the only thing that keeps them attached. But they are two identical chromosomes The cell cycle multiplies cells The Cell Cycle is an ordered sequence of events for cell division It consists of two stages Interphase: Duplication of cell contents G1- growth, increase in cytoplasm S-duplication of chromosomes G2-growth Interphase In the cytoplasm Cytoplasmic contents double Two centrosomes from In the Nucleus Prophase Prometaphase Spindle microtulues reach chromosomes, where they Attach at kinetochores on the centromeres of sister Spindle Microtubules connect to kinetochore at centromere. Metaphase Means middle Spindle is fully formed Chromosomes align at the cell equator Kinetochores of sister chromatids are facing the opposite poles of the spindle. Anaphase Sister chromatids separate at the centromeres Daughter chromosomes are moved to opposite poles of the cell Motor Proteins move the chromosomes By the end of anaphase there is finally 92 chromosomes in one cell. One separated there are no longer chromotides. Telophase cutes chromsomes in half Telophase The cell continues to elongate The nuclear encelope forms around chromosomes at at each pole, establishing daughter Cyrikinesis Cytoplasm is divided into separate cells Applying your knowledge by the end of cytokinesis How many chromosomes are present in one humb Chromatids are made of chromatin Cytokinesis -Cleavage in animal cells - A cleavage furrow forms from a contracting ring of microfilaments Mitosis: Produces genetically identical cells for Growth Replacement Asexual reproduction Meiosis Somatic Cells have pairs of homologous chromosomes, receiving one member of each pair from each parent. Every cell in your body except sex cells Homologous chromosomes are matched chromosomes in diploid cells, one of which is inherited from the individual’s female parent and the other form its male parent. Diploid means fulls amount of chromosomes. 2 of these make a somatic cell. The human sex chromosomes X and Y differ in size and genetic composition Pairs of autosomes (all other cells in general) have the same size and genetic composition Meiosis is a process that concerts diploid nuclei to haploid nuclei Diploid cells have two homologous sets of chromsomes Haploid cells gave one set of chromosomes Meiosis occurs in the sex organs, producing gametes-sperm and eggs Fertilization is the union of sperm and egg The Zygote has a d Diploid chromosome number, one set from each parent Like mitosis, Meiosis is preceded by interphase Chromsomes duplicate during the S phase Unlike mitosis, meiosis has two divisions During meiosis 1, homologous Metaphase 1 Tetrads align at the cell equator Anaphase 1 Homologous pairs separate and move toward opposite poles of the cell Telophase Duplicated to make half of chromosomes Each nucleus has the haploid number of chromosomes Meiosis II follows meiosis ! without chromosome duplication Each of the two haploid products enters meiosis II Events in the nucleus Anaphase II Sister chromtids separate Which characteristics are similar for mitosis and meiosis? Homologus pairs: Both chromsomes from pairs that code for same shared info up to chromosomes 1-23 (include Autosomes and sex linked pairs Autosomes: Match up perfecting for traits 1-22 Sex Links: Determined your gender also number 23 rd pair",0.9322230815887451],["Unformatted text preview: 1 BioLab3 Ecology Concepts Lab report Student Name: Shachi Merchant I. Producers Define the following terms. Ecology the branch of biology that deals with the relations of organisms to one another and to their physical surroundings. Ecosystem a biological community of interacting organisms and their physical environment. Community Consists of all the populations of all the species occupying a given area at a given time Population Is a group of individuals of the same species occupying a given area at a given time Habitat Is the physical location an individual organism occupies and includes the physical and chemical features as well as the other organisms present Define the following terms. Chloroplasts Chlorophyll Autotroph Heterotroph a plastid that contains chlorophyll and in which photosynthesis takes place. a green pigment, present in all green plants and in cyanobacteria, responsible for the absorption of light to provide energy for photosynthesis. Its molecule contains a magnesium atom held in a porphyrin ring. an organism that is able to form nutritional organic substances from simple inorganic substances such as carbon dioxide. an organism deriving its nutritional requirements from complex organic substances. © Access Learning Systems 2 EXERCISE 1 – Identification of producers 1. Identify the samples of producers displayed online. 2.Record the name of the specimen. For each specimen, identify distinguishing characteristics and the reason why it is a producer. Organism Characteristics Why is this producer? Photosynthetic; appears as green spheres Horizontal stems that grow close to the ground Efficient energy producer Vascular aquatic plant, few layers thick Contains chloroplast which makes it a producer Forms a bright green frothy mass on or just below the water surface Volvox Fern Geranium Elodea 3. A spirogyra is plant­like because of the presence of chlorophyll which allows it to make a Producer Photosynthetic so is able to obtain energy from the sun They are vascular plants which is able to obtain energy Contains aromatic oils that gives a scent Spirogyra Observe the image of wet mount of an Elodea leaf. ∙ What are the disk­shaped green structures in the leaf cells? ∙ What function do they perform? I. Consumers EXERCISE 2 – Identification of consumers Record the name of the organism, its distinguishing characteristics, and whether it is a primary or secondary consumer. Organism Characteristics Type of consumer Paramecium Honey Bees Perch Frogs Small oval shaped organiism Yellow fury shaped insects Fish, fin tailed Slimy skinned, four legged Primary Primary Secondary Secondary II. Decomposers © Access Learning Systems 3 Define the following terms. Ectocrines a metabolite produced by an organism of one kind and utilized by one of another kind. Bacteria a member of a large group of unicellular microorganisms that have cell walls but lack organelles and an organized nucleus, including some that can cause disease. any of a group of unicellular, multicellular, or syncytial spore­producing organisms feeding on organic matter, including molds, yeast, mushrooms, and toadstools. Fungi Mycelium the vegetative part of a fungus, consisting of a network of fine white filaments (hyphae). Hypha each of the branching filaments that make up the mycelium of a fungus. Rhizoids a filamentous outgrowth or root hair on the underside of the thallus in some lower plants, especially mosses and liverworts, serving both to anchor the plant and (in terrestrial forms) to conduct water. Sporangiophores (in a fungus) a specialized hypha bearing sporangia. Sporangia. (in ferns and lower plants) a receptacle in which asexual spores are formed. Basiodiocarp is the sporocarp of a basidiomycete, the multicellular structure on which the spore­producing hymenium is borne. Basidiospores a spore produced by a basidium. Detritovores an animal that feeds on dead organic material, especially plant detritus. EXERCISE 3 – Decomposers Name each organism, its distinguishing characteristics, and why it is a decomposer. Organism Characteristics Why is this a decomposer? © Access Learning Systems 4 Bacteria Bread Mold Mushrooms Earthworms Crayfish 1) lack of membrane­ bound organelles, 2) unicellular and 3) small (usually microscopic) size. they reproduce sexually, decay organic matter and have similar cellular structures. have a stalk, also called a stem, and a cap, which is generally disc shaped. On the underside of the cap are made up of many small segments known as ‘annuli’. These annuli are ridged and covered in minute hairs that grip the soil allowing the worm to move as it contracts its muscles. crayfish include numerous crustaceans belonging to the phylum Arthropoda. Ability to reduce organic materials to inorganic that plants in an ecosystem can use again Rhizopus stolonifer has some importance to the environment. This specific type of mold plays a key role in the carbon cycle because it works as a decomposer in the soil, dung, and many food types. Fungi are nature's decomposers recycling nutrients in dead plant and animal matter. they help keep nutrients moving in food webs Decomposers were breaking it down into smaller and smaller pieces that finally turned the snake into soil. Crayfish do the same thing. III. Abiotic Material Name five abiotic materials found in an ecosystem. Soil Water Air Temperature and Sunlight IV. Relationships Between Organisms What is the role of the following organisms in an ecosystem? Organism Producers Role in ecosystem Green plants and others that convert light energy to chemical energy © Access Learning Systems 5 Primary consumers Organisms that eat producers to obtain energy and nutrients Secondary consumers Organisms that eat primary consumers to obtain energy and nutrients Parasites Obtaining energy by ingesting blood Tertiary consumers Organisms that eat secondary consumers to obtain energy and nutrients Omnivores Obtain energy from both plants and animals Herbivore Obtain energy from plants Carnivore Obtain energy from animals Define the following terms. Term Photosynthesis Definition the process by which green plants and some other organisms use sunlight to synthesize foods from carbon dioxide and water. Photosynthesis in plants generally involves the green pigment chlorophyll and generates oxygen as a byproduct. Cellular respiration is what cells do to break up sugars into a form that the cell can use as energy. Metabolism High energy molecule that supplies energy for all chemical processes that occur in the cells Trophic level Feeding level that identifies an organisms energy source Food chain Food web Transfer of materials and energy from one organism to another represents Consists of interwoven food chains © Access Learning Systems 6 In the space below, write the general equation summarizing photosynthesis. 6CO2 + C6H12O6 Water Carbon Dioxide 6H2O + Glucose 6O2 Oxygen In the space below, write the general equation summarizing cellular respiration. C6H12O6 Glucose + 6O2 6CO2+6H2O Oxygen Carbon dioxide + 36ATP Water EXERCISE 4 – Terrestrial ecosystem 1. Study the ecosystem represented in the food web pictured in your lab. 2. Name the producers, consumers, and decomposers. Producers: Trees corn flowers weeds Consumers: deer rabbit butterfly grasshopper rat mouse , mountain lion, snake, owl insect eating bird Decomposers: fungi, and bacteria In the table below, identify the organisms that compete for food as well as the food in the food web depicted in your lab. Food Source Competitors Mouse Owl Snake Rabbit Owl snake mountain lion FLowers Grasshopper, mouse © Access Learning Systems 7 V. Flow of Energy EXERCISE 5 ­ Energy flow in the ecosystem Why is an ecosystem considered open in terms of flow of energy? Because an outside source of light energy must constantly replace the heat energy leaving the ecosystem How much of the producer’s energy is captured by secondary consumers? 1% An omnivore, such as a bear, can obtain nutrition by eating plant material or animal material. From an energy standpoint, which source most efficiently utilizes the sun’s energy? Plant material Explain how vegetarians obtain energy in the energy pyramid. By eating plants which are primary producers which use 100% of energy VI. Cycling of Materials What is a closed ecosystem in terms of materials? Inorganic molecules Which organisms break complex organic molecules down into simple inorganic molecules? bacteria, worms, slugs, snails, and fungi like mushrooms Name three molecules that cycle through living systems. Carbon dioxide, oxygen What is the difference between an autotroph and a heterotroph? Summary Questions © Access Learning Systems 8 Organisms are divided into autotrophs and heterotrophs according to their energy pathways. Autotrophs are those organisms that are able to make energy­containing organic molecules from inorganic raw material by using basic energy sources such as sunlight. 1. All the organisms of the same species in one location make up a: Kingdom 2. What is the term for the place where an organism lives? Habitat 3. What is the term for a community and its physical and chemical environment? Ecology 4. Give an example of a parasite. Tapeworms 5. Give an example of a producer. Plant 6. Give an example of a detritivore. Worms 7. What are the two major groups of decomposers in an ecosystem? Bacteria and Fungi 8. What is another term for primary consumer? triterary consumer­a high level consumer 9. What is another term for secondary consumer? carnivores, herbivores, or omnivores 10. What term best describes the eating patterns of humans? Carnivores 11. Explain how energy enters, flows, and exits an ecosystem. 12. through photosynthesis Explain how materials cycle in an ecosystem. Energy flows and recycled 13. Describe the difference between the movement of energy vs. materials in an ecosystem. Flow of energy just means how energy is transferred across the ecosystem. Flow of matter is like flow of water, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, carbon dioxide, etc. 14. List each level represented by an energy pyramid and the percentage of energy captured by each level. Pyramid levels Percentage of energy captured Primary Producers 100% energy Primary Consumer 10% Secondary Consumer 1% Tertiary consumer .1% © Access Learning Systems 9 15. What determines the trophic level to which an organism belongs? It depends on what the organisms is classified as 16. Compare a food chain to a food web. Transfer of materials and energy from one organism to another represents and food web Consists of interwoven food chains 17. What are the four components of an ecosystem? Give examples of each. Abiotic Substances: water Producers: blue algae Consumers: herbivores Decomposers: fungi and bacteria 18. A program designed to improve fishing was introduced in a pond in the Midwest. First a fish poison was used to kill all the fish in the pond. The biodegradable poison was inactive after 24 hours. Later, the pond was restocked with young game fish. Instead of growing into large game fish, the new population contained many stunted individuals. Explain why the new population contained many stunted individuals. © Access Learning Systems...",0.9236804842948914],["Increased acreages of winter wheat and of silage are two examples of changes that have brought financial benefits to farmers but have not benefited either the natural environment or hunting.",0.9216036200523376],["X1011594126-00145-34527</DOCNO> BC Education - Science K to 7 - Learning Outcomes Science K to 7 Learning Outcomes This document has been organized by the following grades: Grades K - 1 Grades 2 - 3 Grade 4 Grade 5 Grade 6 Grade 7 Grades K - 1 Life Science (Plant and Animal Characteristics) It is expected that students will: describe the characteristics of a variety of plants describe the diversity of plants within the home and school environment collaborate with others in the care of a plant or animal describe the appearance and behaviour of a variety of animals determine the requirements of healthy plants and healthy animals identify similarities and differences among animal species Life Science (Plant and Animal Life Cycles) It is expected that students will: identify the stages in the life cycle of a plant and of a pet or other animal demonstrate how plants and other organic material can be recycled back into the environment compare the life cycle of an animal hatched from an egg with one born from the mother Physical Science (Properties of Objects) It is expected that students will: describe the properties of a variety of common objects describe how objects can change over time use a variety of objects to describe motion and changes in motion Physical Science (Force and Motion) use a variety of objects to describe motion and changes in motion identify common types of forces Physical Science (Properties of Matter) differentiate between solids, liquids, and gases practice appropriate safety procedures when investigating solids, liquids, and gases Physical Science (Changes) It is expected that students will: demonstrate changes in properties of matter when it is heated or cooled demonstrate changes in properties of matter when water is added identify a variety of changes that cannot be reversed distinguish variations from regular pattern Earth and Space Science (Earth's Surface) It is expected that students will: describe the characteristics of rocks, soil, and water classify rocks and soil according to their physical characteristics identify the living and non-living materials found in soil describe the effects of water and wind on rocks and soil Earth and Space Science (Weather and Seasons) It is expected that students will: describe the properties of air describe the effects of weather on living things identify characteristics of each season infer the relationship between the position of an object, its shadow, and the sun Grades 2 - 3 Applications of Science It is expected that students will: conduct simple tests and describe observations use simple magnifiers or microscopes to observe things suggest possible improvements to investigations formulate questions to guide observation and investigations use a variety of measuring instruments to gather accurate information identify patterns and groupings to draw conclusions from information communicate scientific observations to \npeers, teachers, and family construct models to represent ideas or concepts describe the ways people in the community use science use a variety of science equipment safely conserve resources in the school Life Science (Plants in the Environment) It is expected that students will: demonstrate a knowledge of how plants take in water, nutrients, and light compare and contrast different types of plant life cycles describe structures that enable different plants to survive in different environments compare and contrast plant fossils with living organisms suggest reasons for the endangerment or extinction of plant species Life Science (Animals in the Environment) It is expected that students will: compare and contrast different types of animal life cycles compare and contrast plant and animal life cycles describe structures that enable animals to survive in different environments demonstrate a knowledge of what animals need to survive explain how animals interact with one another compare and contrast animal fossils with living organisms suggest reasons for the endangerment or extinction of animal species Life Science (Human Body - Hearing and Speech) It is expected that students will: describe the basic structure and function of the organs involved in hearing and speech relate the nature of sound to hearing describe ways to protect their hearing and speech organs from damage Physical Science (Magnetism) classify materials as magnetic or non-magnetic demonstrate the properties of magnetic attraction and repulsion describe various kinds of magnets and their force fields create a magnet Physical Science (Energy in our Lives) It is expected that students will: identify the sources of energy in a variety of devices found in the school and home describe ways energy is used in the school and home evaluate ways energy can be conserved in the school and home Physical Science (Properties of Matter) It is expected that students will: describe the three states of matter relate changes in the states of matter to thermal energy transfer distinguish between changes in matter that cannot be readily reversed and those that can identify properties of matter that may stay the same even when other properties change classify materials according to the extent to which they conduct heat Physical Science (Sound) It is expected that students will: demonstrate the ability to make sound using vibrations describe different types of sounds in terms of pitch, quality, and intensity compare how sound travels through different materials infer how we hear sounds Earth and Space Science (Sky Above Us) It is expected that students will: identify the Earth as part of a system of planets describe the unique properties of the Earth that sustain life demonstrate how the movements of the Earth cause day, night, and the seasons distinguish between the features of the day and night skies Earth and Space Science (Earth's Composition) construct a model to show that the Earth is composed of many layers give examples of how the Earth's surface changes constantly classify rocks as sedimentary, igneous, and metamorphic demonstrate a knowledge of the composition and formation of soil demonstrate an understanding of the factors involved in the composition and formation of rocks (e.g., minerals, temperatures, forces) Grade 4 Applications of Science It is expected that students will: predict the results of an experiment perform an experiment by following a procedure use appropriate tools to assist in observation construct simple definitions based on their experiment demonstrate an ability to recognize a valid interpretation of their results present their interpretation of the results from an experiment use a variety of media to present information demonstrate responsible action when using the scientific information and skills they have developed Life Science (Adaptations of Organisms) It is expected that students will: relate the structure and behaviour of local organisms to their survival in local environments discuss how changes in an organism's habitat can affect the survival of individual organisms and entire species give examples of how the differences in individuals of the same species may give an advantage in surviving and reproducing relate the growth and survival of organisms to a variety of conditions Life Science (Body Systems - Digestive, Skeletal, Muscular) It is expected that students will: describe the basic structure and function of the organs involved in digestion compare and contrast the digestive systems of humans and various animals describe the basic structure and function of the skeletal and muscular systems compare and contrast the skeletal and muscular systems of humans and various animals relate the life processes of an organism to its use of nutrients, water, and oxygen describe the changing requirements of organisms as they grow relate dietary habits and behaviour to an organism's health Physical Science (Simple Machines) It is expected that students will: manipulate simple machines to determine their characteristics and uses compare the uses of simple machines today with those in the past operate simple machines to demonstrate their usefulness in everyday life Physical Science (Electricity) It is expected that students will: demonstrate an ability to produce static charges distinguish between static and current electrical charges distinguish between a conductor and an insulator construct simple series and parallel electrical circuits give examples of how electricity is used safely analyze changes in electrical usage during the last 100 years Earth and Space Science (Water) It is expected that students will: categorize the various uses of water outline the importance of water for life use the physical properties of water to describe or illustrate the water cycle compare and contrast fresh water and salt water environments describe human impacts on the Earth's water resources Grade 5 Applications of Science It is expected that students will: design a scientific experiment identify relevant variables in an experiment identify and test a prediction classify and order based on a set of keys and criteria correctly state a hypothesis differentiate between relevant and irrelevant information use appropriate technologies to record, measure, save, and retrieve data describe technologies that allow humans to extend their natural abilities describe how technology has affected human health identify ways science is used \nresponsibly in their communities Life Science (B.C.'s Living Resources) It is expected that students will: identify living resources in the local environment describe how humans use B.C.'s living resources describe the known and potential environmental impacts of using B.C.'s living resources devise a strategy for sustaining a living resource Life Science (Body Systems - Respiratory, Circulatory, Sensory) It is expected that students will: describe the basic structure and function of the organs in the respiratory and circulatory systems compare and contrast the respiratory and circulatory systems of humans with those of other animals describe the relationship between the respiratory and circulatory systems identify the basic structure and function of the organs in the sensory system compare and contrast the sensory systems of humans with those of animals Physical Science (Materials in our World) It is expected that students will: describe basic units of matter identify common elements and molecules distinguish between natural and synthetic materials identify some unique properties of synthetic materials that are useful to society compare the environmental impacts of using natural and synthetic materials Physical Science (Light and Colour) It is expected that students will: distinguish between reflection and refraction relate differences in colour to differences in wavelengths describe how the eye uses light to see Earth and Space Science (Atmosphere and Weather) It is expected that students will: identify factors responsible for weather systems locally and globally describe the key features of a variety of weather conditions identify and measure the factors that influence local weather use instruments to measure local weather conditions describe the consequences of extreme weather conditions Earth and Space Science (B.C.'s Non-Living Resources) It is expected that students will: identify the methods of extracting and processing non-living resources describe how non-living resources are used in society describe the environmental impacts of using non-living resources Grade 6 Applications of Science It is expected that students will: design a scientific test and evaluate its fairness demonstrate the appropriate use of microscopes use instruments to make a variety of direct measurements draw reasonable conclusions from experiments organize and interpret information in simple tables and graphs write clear, step-by-step instructions for conducting investigations, operating something, or following a procedure compare ways of solving problems and finding explanations explain how hypotheses can be valuable, even if they turn out to be not true demonstrate an appreciation of the importance of keeping honest and unbiased scientific records discuss the contributions Canadians have made to science Life Science (Classification of Organisms) It is expected that students will: describe how all living things belong to one of five kingdoms (Plants, Animals, Monera, Protista, Fungi) classify plants and animals according to their internal and external features develop common classification systems for organisms Life Science (Microscopic World) It is expected that students will: describe all living things as being composed of cells identify the characteristics of various single-celled organisms describe the similarities and differences in plant and animal cells analyze the effects of micro-organisms on other organisms describe the human body's various defenses against harmful micro-organisms Physical Science (Chemical and Physical Changes) It is expected that students will: classify changes to matter as either chemical or physical identify factors affecting chemical and physical changes demonstrate chemical and physical changes Physical Science (Forces) It is expected that students will: identify the different types of forces describe the relationships among forces, motion, and mass Earth and Space Science (Space Exploration) It is expected that students will: outline the history of piloted and unpiloted flight identify the human and technological requirements for space exploration list the contributions that space exploration has made to everyday life describe Canada's contributions to space exploration evaluate piloted space exploration in comparison with unpiloted exploration Earth and Space Science (Solar System) It is expected that students will: describe the primary features of our solar system compare and contrast the conditions that support life on Earth with those on other planets and our moon relate the movement of the sun, moon, and Earth to seasons, tides, eclipses, and the phases of the moon Grade 7 Application of Science It is expected that students will: select an appropriate procedure for an investigation design an experiment involving two or more variables select appropriate equipment and techniques to collect useful quantitative and qualitative information investigate how models may be used to think about processes that cannot be observed directly evaluate conclusions in relation to other evidence and sources use graphs to summarize experimental data identify factors that have made possible or limited the work of particular scientists describe how technology and science are related propose and compare options when making decisions or taking action analyze costs and benefits of alternative scientific choices related to a community problem take responsibility for the safe and accurate use of equipment and procedures Life Science (Ecology) It is expected that students will: describe all organisms in terms of their roles as part of interconnected food webs describe ways in which species interact with each other compare and contrast the major biogeoclimatic zones of B.C. determine the limiting factors for local ecosystems outline the stages of recovery of a damaged local ecosystem Life Science (Body Systems - Reproduction, Growth, &amp; Change) It is expected that students will: compare and contrast asexual and sexual reproduction in both plants and animals describe the growth and changes in the development of an organism outline factors that influence the length and quality of life Physical Science (Environmental Chemistry) It is expected that students will: use the pH scale to classify a variety of substances identify chemical reactions that are important in the environment assess the impact of chemical pollution on a local environment collect, analyze, and interpret data on environmental quality Physical Science (Energy Sources and Options) It is expected that students will: describe different sources of energy that can be harnessed to produce electrical energy evaluate energy options available for particular purposes in the \ncommunity describe how electrical energy can be transformed into other forms of energy describe how scientific developments have influenced energy use through the ages Earth and Space Science (Astronomy) It is expected that students will: identify characteristics of known objects outside the solar system outline the changes in human understanding of the universe from early times to the present illustrate the seasonal position of various constellations Earth and Space Science (Earth's Crust) It is expected that students will: identify changes that occur to the Earth's surface due to earthquakes and volcanoes compare and contrast the geological features found on the ocean floor with those on the surface of the continents Science K-7 Integrated Resource Package Please direct any questions, comments or suggestions to Virtual Curriculum (EducationCurriculum@gems7.gov.bc.ca) Last Modified: April 16, 1998.",0.9215322732925415],["Traditional culturing techniques have been shown to grow The inability to replicate the natural environment of microorganisms in the lab is most significant for environments which are extreme by human standards, for example the depths of the ocean, glacial ice and hot springs.",0.9169542193412781],["Plants and the Human Culture Humans have changed in their perception of plants and nature and how they interact.",0.9154219627380371],["Plants and the Human Culture Humans have changed in their perception of plants and nature and how they interact.",0.9154219627380371],["X1013070084-00230-61503</DOCNO> Grade Level 5 GRADE LEVEL 5 Weather (Atmosphere) (CS 4) Students will be able to: Relate observed weather conditions to different climates and seasons Investigate different stages in the water cycle (melting, freezing, and evaporation, and condensation) Observe and describe weather conditions such as clouds, temperatures, air pressure, and precipitation Identify events \nin nature that have repeating patterns or cycles, (e.g. weather patterns, water cycle) Compare and contrast the various types of common clouds Relate observed weather conditions to different climates and seasonal changes Interpret and summarize long term weather data Organize weather data on graphs and long term data collection charts Renewable and Non-renewable Resources (CS 4) Students will be able to: Identify/explain such effects human activities have on the atmosphere Ecology (CS 3) Students will be able to: Classify a variety of organisms based on their characteristics, and use this scheme as a tool to organize information about the diversity of life forms Describe/identify random differences between individuals of the same species of plant or animal (e.g. students can examine parts of plants of the same species and recognize variations, and can construct graphs and charts showing the variations) Create examples of food chains and webs in several types of ecosystems (e.g. deciduous forest, fresh water, desert, etc.) Demonstrate a basic knowledge of the process of photosynthesis and its importance for all life forms Identify and describe the basic requirements for sustaining life (e.g. plants and animals need food for energy and growth) Conduct an investigation which illustrates how the environment affects the viability of plants or animals within that environment Describe and give examples of the various types of interactions that occur among organisms (e.g. predator-prey, symbiotic, producer-consumer-decomposer, host-parasite) to demonstrate how organisms compete or cooperate with each other to gain food, resources or space Identify and describe examples of New Hampshire animals and plants that live together in one ecosystem (e.g. forest, seashore, lake, river) Identify common materials that cycle through the environment (e.g. carbon, water, carbon dioxide, oxygen, etc.) Explore through models, experiments, and observations how matter and energy interact in any ecosystem Describe how organisms can acquire energy directly or indirectly from the energy of the sun Describe similarities and differences between single celled and multicellular organisms (e.g. cell structures) Observe and describe major characteristics of various life forms (e.g. microorganisms, fungi, protists, plants, animals) Compare and contrast life processes in plants and animals (e.g. growth and development, nutrition, reproduction, etc.) Explore the adaptive relationships of animals and plants to their habitats (e.g. life in a pine cone, effects of pollution on different species, etc.) Name and describe the five kingdoms of living things Conduct an investigation which demonstrates the effect of one or more environmental factors on the viability of a plant or animal (e.g. set up a small freshwater ecosystem in an aquarium, observe the ecosystem and keep records of physical factors and the effects on all living organisms Matter (CS 5) Students will be able to: Describe objects in terms of the materials of which they are made (clay, cloth, paper) and their physical properties (color, size, shape, mass, texture, flexibility) Describe characteristics of matter that are common to solids and liquids (have mass, take up space), and that distinguish them as different phases of matter Explore how the total mass of an object or device is fixed despite changes in shape (e.g. measure mass of piece of paper before and after being crumpled or shredded or made into an airplane;",0.914066731929779],["Plants are fundamental to all ecosystems in the world - they are the energy inputs of those systems Dr Ottoline Leyser, UK Arabidopsis researcher From the genes in this plant, which will grow happily on waste ground by the side of the road, scientists have already learned how to protect wheat from disease and to double the yield of oilseed rape.",0.9112392067909241],["Plants are fundamental to all ecosystems in the world - they are the energy inputs of those systems Dr Ottoline Leyser, UK Arabidopsis researcher From the genes in this plant, which will grow happily on waste ground by the side of the road, scientists have already learned how to protect wheat from disease and to double the yield of oilseed rape.",0.9112392067909241],["Plants are fundamental to all ecosystems in the world - they are the energy inputs of those systems Dr Ottoline Leyser, UK Arabidopsis researcher From the genes in this plant, which will grow happily on waste ground by the side of the road, scientists have already learned how to protect wheat from disease and to double the yield of oilseed rape.",0.9112392067909241],["Students could undertake research which helps them understand how technology and human needs have altered a particular ecosystem, such as the Everglades, and how natural environments place constraints on human activity [Environment].",0.9053439497947693],["In the sunflower example, you would have manipulated growing conditions to see how changes in growing conditions affect plant height.",0.9028249979019165],["In the sunflower example, you would have manipulated growing conditions to see how changes in growing conditions affect plant height.",0.9028249979019165],["Adaptation means how plants might change or grow that help them survive in their biome environment.",0.9025684595108032],["Today some of these old dead plants and animals with the stored sun's energy have changed into coal, oil and natural gas.\"",0.9017971158027649],["Did you have pizza for lunch today? Think about the crust of your pizza. The dough for your pizza crust was made from wheat planted by a farmer. The sun produced energy for the wheat to grow. The farmer harvested the wheat to make flour for the bread.",0.8990114331245422],["Did you have pizza for lunch today? Think about the crust of your pizza. The dough for your pizza crust was made from wheat planted by a farmer. The sun produced energy for the wheat to grow. The farmer harvested the wheat to make flour for the bread.",0.8990114331245422],["Many organisms have powerful control genes that determine how the body is laid out. For example, Hox genes are found in many animals (including flies and humans) and designate where the head goes and which regions of the body grow appendages. Such master control genes help direct the building of body \"units,\" such as segments, limbs, and eyes. So evolving a major change in basic body layout may not be so unlikely; it may simply require a change in a Hox gene and the favor of natural selection .",0.8951104283332825],["Western Canadian scientists have developed naturally-occurring fertilizers that help plants grow without threatening the environment.",0.8892269134521484],["Western Canadian scientists have developed naturally-occurring fertilizers that help plants grow without threatening the environment.",0.8892269134521484],[": About the changes in environment by forces of nature, that plants, especially trees, have to suffer: meteorology and geology trees growing in dense woods without sun or wind become weak the influence of one plant on another: benefits and damage caused by nearby plants movement of leaves, flowers etc at certain times of the year or the day 3.",0.8855693340301514],["Nontechnical Summary: Recent reports of the elucidation of the genetic blueprint (DNA sequence structure) of two plants, the small mustard-like plant Arabidopsis and the cereal grain rice, have provided a major step forward in understanding how plants grow and convert sun-energy to food for humans and animals.",0.88463294506073],["As long as you respect the surrounding environment for how it is naturally, your cannabis plants will remain safe and won’t have problems growing.",0.88127201795578],["forces within the earth and our universe have caused changes in the physical environment which has affected biological systems the sun's energy shapes the earth's environment which is subject to the physical laws of nature Life Science - Unifiying Concept : All living things are structurally and dynamically related to each other and to their changing environments.",0.8693528771400452],["forces within the earth and our universe have caused changes in the physical environment which has affected biological systems the sun's energy shapes the earth's environment which is subject to the physical laws of nature Life Science - Unifiying Concept : All living things are structurally and dynamically related to each other and to their changing environments.",0.8693528771400452],["When an animal or human eats any of the plant, this energy from the sun which was passed through the process of photosynthesis, the energy is changed into nutrients that is needed.",0.8689267039299011],["When an animal or human eats any of the plant, this energy from the sun which was passed through the process of photosynthesis, the energy is changed into nutrients that is needed.",0.8689267039299011],["Mesophytes are those plants which grow on average and moisture temperature. Examples of these plants are mustard, wheat, mango etc.",0.8653032183647156],["\"We humans live primarily on secondary solar energy as the plants which we consume depend heavily on the sun to grow,\" Manek, a Kutchi living in Coimbatore, says.",0.8638992309570312],["MS-ESS3-4.Construct an argument supported by evidence for how increases in human population and per-capita consumption of natural resources impact Earth's systems. [Clarification Statement: Examples of evidence include grade-appropriate databases on human populations and the rates of consumption of food and natural resources (such as freshwater, mineral, and energy). Examples of impacts can include changes to the appearance, composition, and structure of Earth’s systems as well as the rates at which they change. The consequences of increases in human populations and consumption of natural resources are described by science, but science does not make the decisions for the actions society takes.]",0.8635498285293579],["ADAPTATION IN NATURE Goals: This unit helps students understand how plants and animals adapt to changes in their environment.",0.8626085519790649],["Feral species are domesticated plants (or animals) that have escaped from cultivation and now grow wild or naturally without the help of humans.",0.8606876730918884],["In order to complete the flower life cycle stage of growth, plants have to produce their own food. This process is called photosynthesis. As soon as the leaves emerge, they start the process of photosynthesis. Plants contain chloroplasts in the leaves which convert the energy from sunlight, carbon dioxide, and water into sugars, which they use as food. The plants store the sugars in the roots and stem. The root system continues to develop, anchoring the plant into the ground and growing root hairs which help the plant to better absorb water and nutrients. The stem grows longer towards the sun and transports water and food between the roots and leaves. Sugars and starches are changed into energy used to make new plant growth. New leaves grow from the top of the stem, or meristem. After a while, flower buds develop. Some plants flower within days while it takes others months or even years.",0.8571408987045288],["By knowing how a wheat plant grows and develops, an understanding of why it responds as it does to management and the environment can be gained.",0.850327730178833],["By knowing how a wheat plant grows and develops, an understanding of why it responds as it does to management and the environment can be gained.",0.850327730178833],["It can be easy to forget how interconnected Earth’s systems are. Humans couldn’t exist on Earth without plants, which provide us with food to eat, oxygen to breath, and materials to make our homes, clothes, and more. Plants in turn depend on energy from the sun both for their own sustenance and to help power the water cycle that brings rain. Plants also need nutrients from the soil. Some nutrients come from the nonliving mineral component of the soil and some come from decomposing organic matter, which is the waste created by living and dying plants and animals. In this lesson, students will become more aware of how living and nonliving things work together by creating and observing a terrarium environment.",0.8500328660011292],["The package helps students to make connections between the human development on the river and changes in plant and wildlife and to see how alterations in one location can have an impact on the environment far from the source of the change.",0.8490694761276245],["The package helps students to make connections between the human development on the river and changes in plant and wildlife and to see how alterations in one location can have an impact on the environment far from the source of the change.",0.8490694761276245],["Cactus is the ideal example for a xerophyte which are plants that have adapted to require very little water and grow in arid environments.",0.8485754132270813],["Cactus is the ideal example for a xerophyte which are plants that have adapted to require very little water and grow in arid environments.",0.8485754132270813],["font-weight: bold} Sambal's Science Web Pollution [ Home ] [ Up ] Pollution is a harmful change in the natural environment caused by human activities: This may be the release of substances which are toxic to either animals or plants, or it may be the release of energy (heat, light, radiation, or sound) which interferes with the development of animals or plants.",0.8483618497848511],["FOURTH GRADE Performance Standards - by the end of grade four, students will: THE CHARACTERISTICS OF ORGANISMS F.4.1 Discover* how each organism meets its basic needs for water, nutrients, protection, and energy* in order to survive F.4.2 Investigate* how organisms, especially plants, respond to both internal cues (the need for water) and external cues (changes in the environment) LIFE CYCLES OF ORGANISMS F.4.3 Illustrate* the different ways that organisms grow through life stages and survive to produce new members of their type ORGANISMS AND THEIR ENVIRONMENT F.4.4 Using the science themes*, develop explanations* for the connections among living and non-living things in various environments EIGHTH GRADE Performance Standards - by the end of grade eight, students will: STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION IN LIVING THINGS F.8.1 Understand* the structure and function* of cells, organs, tissues, organ systems, and whole organisms F.8.2 Show* how organisms have adapted structures to match their functions*, providing means of encouraging individual and group survival within specific environments F.8.3 Differentiate between single-celled and multiple-celled organisms (humans) through investigation, comparing the cell functions of specialized cells for each type of organism REPRODUCTION AND HEREDITY F.8.4 Investigate* and explain* that heredity is comprised of the characteristic traits found in genes within the cell of an organism F.8.5 Show* how different structures both reproduce and pass on characteristics of their group REGULATION AND BEHAVIOR F.8.6 Understand* that an organism is regulated both internally and externally F.8.7 Understand* that an organism's behavior evolves through adaptation to its environment POPULATIONS AND ECOSYSTEMS F.8.8 Show* through investigations* how organisms both depend on and contribute to the balance or imbalance of populations and/or ecosystems, which in turn contribute to the total system* of life on the planet DIVERSITY AND ADAPTATIONS OF ORGANISMS F.8.9 Explain* how some of the changes* on the earth are contributing to changes in the balance of life and affecting the survival or population growth of certain species F.8.10 Project how current trends in human resource use and population growth will influence the natural environment, and show how current policies affect those trends.",0.8478049039840698],["FOURTH GRADE Performance Standards - by the end of grade four, students will: THE CHARACTERISTICS OF ORGANISMS F.4.1 Discover* how each organism meets its basic needs for water, nutrients, protection, and energy* in order to survive F.4.2 Investigate* how organisms, especially plants, respond to both internal cues (the need for water) and external cues (changes in the environment) LIFE CYCLES OF ORGANISMS F.4.3 Illustrate* the different ways that organisms grow through life stages and survive to produce new members of their type ORGANISMS AND THEIR ENVIRONMENT F.4.4 Using the science themes*, develop explanations* for the connections among living and non living things in various environments EIGHTH GRADE Performance Standards - by the end of grade eight, students will: STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION IN LIVING THINGS F.8.1 Understand* the structure and function* of cells, organs, tissues, organ systems, and whole organisms F.8.2 Show* how organisms have adapted structures to match their functions*, providing means of encouraging individual and group survival within specific environments F.8.3 Differentiate between single celled and multiple celled organisms (humans) through investigation, comparing the cell functions of specialized cells for each type of organism REPRODUCTION AND HEREDITY F.8.4 Investigate* and explain* that heredity is comprised of the characteristic traits found in genes within the cell of an organism F.8.5 Show* how different structures both reproduce and pass on characteristics of their group REGULATION AND BEHAVIOR F.8.6 Understand* that an organism is regulated both internally and externally F.8.7 Understand* that an organism's behavior evolves through adaptation to its environment POPULATIONS AND ECOSYSTEMS F.8.8 Show* through investigations* how organisms both depend on and contribute to the balance or imbalance of populations and/or ecosystems, which in turn contribute to the total system* of life on the planet DIVERSITY AND ADAPTATIONS OF ORGANISMS F.8.9 Explain* how some of the changes* on the earth are contributing to changes in the balance of life and affecting the survival or population growth of certain species F.8.10 Project how current trends in human resource use and population growth will influence the natural environment, and show how current policies affect those trends.",0.8478049039840698],["Environments in which the plant grows",0.8429929614067078],["Environments in which the plant grows",0.8429929614067078],["While plants have not evolved to contain the sophisticated, multifaceted signaling pathways of human brain cells, Boss explains, they do contain some of the more basic components, which help plants sense and respond to changes in their environment.",0.8428606390953064],["While plants have not evolved to contain the sophisticated, multifaceted signaling pathways of human brain cells, Boss explains, they do contain some of the more basic components, which help plants sense and respond to changes in their environment.",0.8428606390953064],["While plants have not evolved to contain the sophisticated, multifaceted signaling pathways of human brain cells, Boss explains, they do contain some of the more basic components, which help plants sense and respond to changes in their environment.",0.8428606390953064],["While plants have not evolved to contain the sophisticated, multifaceted signaling pathways of human brain cells, Boss explains, they do contain some of the more basic components, which help plants sense and respond to changes in their environment.",0.8428606390953064],["While plants have not evolved to contain the sophisticated, multifaceted signaling pathways of human brain cells, Boss explains, they do contain some of the more basic components, which help plants sense and respond to changes in their environment.",0.8428606390953064],["Societies and cultures grow and change, and people have always changed the natural environment in which they live.",0.8401997685432434],["Societies and cultures grow and change, and people have always changed the natural environment in which they live.",0.8401997685432434],["Photosynthesis Germination The Sun Energy Flow Everything Goes Somewhere Garbage You are what you eat Grow Food Adaptions &amp; Specializations Plants That Have Changed History Inspire Learning About Nature Will Change the Future Call to Action A Note: Many thoughts, graphics and ideas in this presentation are not original.",0.8361756801605225],["Topic 6 Content Clues…. Abiotic = nonliving; examples: water, soil, weather, pH Autotroph = plant; self-feeder; Photosynthesis; producers Biodiversity = variations in species; maintains STABILITY in ecosystem; biodiversity benefits humans (medicines) Biosphere = planet Earth Biotic = living; examples: the interaction of bacteria, plants, animals Carnivore = heterotroph; consumer; eats meat Carrying capacity = maximum # of organisms an ecosystem can support Community =all the different populations combined Competition = struggle for resources among organisms (compete for food, water, space, territory; mates); keeps population size in check Consumer = heterotroph; must obtain its food; carnivore / herbivore / omnivore / decomposer / parasite Decomposer = bacteria / fungi; recycle & reuse materials Ecology = how organisms interact with living (biotic) &nonliving (abiotic) things that surround them Ecological niche = role / job that an organism plays in ecosystem; only one species for each niche Ecological succession = series of changes; one habitat changes into another Ecosystem = a portion of the environment; living & nonliving Energy pyramid = transfer of energy through a food chain or web; PLANTS / PRODUCERS (on bottom level) have the MOST energy (directly from sun); energy DECREASES (energy is lost) as you move up the pyramid; Environment = living & nonliving thing surrounding organism Food chain = shows what eats what Food web = many interconnecting food chains; complex feeding relationships; several food choices Habitat = organisms “home”; a specific environment where organism lives Herbivore = heterotroph; consumer; eats plants Heterotroph = consumer; must obtain its food; carnivore / herbivore / omnivore / parasite / decomposer Host = what a parasite lives in or on Limiting factors = limit the size of a population; EX: amount of sun, water, temperature, pH; predator / prey Parasite = consumer; lives in / on host Population = same species living in the same area Predator = kill & eat other organisms Prey = killed for food by predator Producer = plant; autotroph; photosynthesis; a lot of energy (sun) Scavenger = consumer; heterotroph; eat dead organisms",0.8350469470024109],["Now we can answer your question without making a list or giving you information on plants that would not grow where you are. Let's consider photosynthesis. From a previous Mr. Smarty Plants answer: \"When sunlight strikes a leaf, a process called photosynthesis is put into play, the plant converts the energy from the sun, combines it with water and nutrients in the plant, and metabolizes it into food to support the plant, form new structures within the plant, and store food in the roots. Along the way, it releases oxygen, which is a good thing for the human race. The plant uses carbon dioxide, not good for breathing in the process, and releases much needed oxygen as a waste product!\" How cool is that? From sunlight and photosynthesis the whole food chain of Nature is begun. This happens in native plants, alien plants and invasive plants. It's hard to call a plant useless. It may be irritating, poisonous, ugly, intrusive, but it is still feeding all the lifeforms on Earth and providing oxygen.\"",0.8347580432891846],["Global-change re-search may help determine how to manage the fragile relationship between humans and nature in this environment.",0.8328772783279419],["Global-change re-search may help determine how to manage the fragile relationship between humans and nature in this environment.",0.8328772783279419],["Difference between living and non-living things Living things are different from non-living things in the following ways: 1. Food All living things need food to get energy to carry out all the activities. Plants make their own food in the presence of water, sunlight and soil. Animals and human beings depend on plants for food. Non-living things do not need food for their survival. 2. Growth All living things follow a life cycle in which they are born, grow and finally die. A seed grows into a seedling, then into a plant and finally into a tree. A baby grows into an adult and finally becomes old. Animals also grow from babies to adults. As the living beings grow, they change in size, shape and appearance. Non-living things do not grow and they remain the same. 3. Movement All living things move from one place to another. Animals move in search of food. Some animals hunt for their food while others graze on grass. Birds fly in the air. Human beings roam for different activities. Plants though living do not move from place to place. They are help in the soil by their roots. Some parts of certain plants can move some of their plants like the leaves of certain plants close at night and open in the night and the branches of a sunflower always bend in the direction of sunlight. We need to push or pull to move a non-living thing. Non-living things cannot move on their own. 4. Breathe All living things need also to breathe and stay alive. All living things have an organ which helps in breathing. Human beings and many animals breathe through nose. Insects have tiny air holes in their body called as spiracles. Fish breathe though gills. Plants breathe through openings, called stomata, on their leaves. As non-living things do not have life, they do not breathe. 5. Reproduction All living things produce more of it’s kind with the process of reproductions. Some animals lay eggs while others including human beings give birth to young ones. Plants produce seeds. Non-living things do no reproduce. 6. Response Living things have sense organs (eyes, nose, tongue, skin and ears) due to which they respond to changes in their environment. Animals also feel and respond to changes in their environment. Bears hibernate in winters to protect itself from cold. Dogs have sharp sense of smell. Plants do not grow in the absence of light, water and air. Non-living things do not feel. They are not affected by any changes around them. Image source: http://demo.mastermindtutor.com/class-5/images/allthings.jpg SchoolTutoring Academy is the premier educational services company for K-12 and college students. We offer tutoring programs for students in K-12, AP classes, and college. To learn more about how we help parents and students in Edmonton visit: Tutoring in Edmonton.",0.8321194648742676],["Research regarding the flow and use of energy is important, for example understanding how genetic manipulation of crop plants may affect the plant ability to harvest energy, or interact with its symbiotes (i.e rice, wheat or corn) or change its capacity for energy storage (as carbohydrates or proteins).",0.8313736915588379],["Plants growing in full sun tend to have thicker leaves which may help to reduce water loss through transpiration.",0.8241223692893982],["Plants growing in full sun tend to have thicker leaves which may help to reduce water loss through transpiration.",0.8241223692893982],["and ways in which people can be stewards of the environment in their own spaces to help ensure a sustainable environment, for example, naturalization, stream rehabilitation, tree planting, and disuse of pesticides.",0.8209957480430603],["As the wheat plants grow, the crew will monitor the growth chamber's environment and the plants' development.",0.8208857774734497],["As the wheat plants grow, the crew will monitor the growth chamber's environment and the plants' development.",0.8208857774734497],["The area shows examples of how the eucalypts have changed to grow in the different Australian environments.",0.8208829760551453],["For success in transplanting native plants, it is important to understand the environment in which they are growing naturally.",0.820034384727478],["For success in transplanting native plants, it is important to understand the environment in which they are growing naturally.",0.820034384727478],["and proper communication of scientific data collected (e.g., meter sticks, balances, thermometers, scales, graduated cylinders) Laboratory Investigations/Hands-On Learning 7.21 engage in active inquiries, investigations, and hands-on activities for a minimum of 50% of the instructional time to develop conceptual understanding and laboratory skills 7.22 use a variety of materials and scientific instruments to conduct explorations and investigations of the natural world to explain science concepts (e.g., measure environmental conditions using appropriate instruments) 7.23 demonstrate safe techniques for handling, manipulating and caring for science materials, equipment \nand living organisms Science Themes and Subject Matter 7.24 develop through the study of interdependent themes including systems, changes, and models an understanding of biological, earth/space, and physical science concepts 7.25 associate hands-on activities to daily life experiences 7.26 express ideas that illustrate the relevance of science, technology, and societal issues 7.27 9,11 identify and describe disease causing organisms and the diseases they cause (e.g., bacteria, viruses, protozoa, fungi) - systems 7.28 3,4,5,6,8 evaluate how the different adaptations and life cycles of plants and animals help them to survive in different niches and environments (e.g., inherited and acquired adaptations) - systems 7.29 8,9,10,11 explain how human body systems work together (e.g., skeletal, muscular, and integumentary systems) - systems 7.30 3,4,5,6,8,9,10 predict the trends of interdependent populations if one of the limiting factors is changed - changes 7.31 5,8 analyze how changes in the environment have lead to variations in reproductive adaptations (e.g., seed dispersal, egg laying, live birth) - changes 7.32 6,8,9 evaluate the consequences of the introduction of chemicals into the ecosystem (e.g., environmental consequences, human health risks, mutations) - changes 7.33 6,8 analyze the differences in the growth, development and reproduction of plants (e.g., flowering and non-flowering plants) - changes 7.34 compare the variations in cells, tissues, and organs of the skeletal, muscular, and integumentary systems of different organisms - changes 7.35 3,4,5,6 construct simple keys to differentiate among living things of similar characteristics - models 7.36 construct and manipulate models which show variations in living things (e.g.,skeletal, muscular, integrementary systems) - models 7.37 5,6 construct models of biologically important substances (e.g., organic and inorganic molecules) - models 7.38 differentiate among elements, compounds and mixtures - systems 7.39 3,4,6,8,10 differentiate mixtures as solutions, colloids or suspensions - systems 7.40 3,5,6,8,10,11 evaluate types of solutions by solutes and solvents, relative concentrations, conductivity, pH, and nine types of solutions (e.g., liquid in gas, solid in solid, gas in gas) - systems 7.41 9,11 studying chemical reactions involving acids and bases, follow the neutralization process using color indicators and identify the salt formed in the reaction - changes 7.42 6,8,9,10,11 describe the behavior of individual particles and verify the conservation of matter while exploring the melting and freezing of pure substances - changes 7.43 6,8,9,10,11 trace the energy flow into and out of materials and verify that melting and freezing occurs at the same temperature - changes 7.44 using pictures showing cyclical processes in nature, trace the water cycle, the nitrogen cycle, and the carbon dioxide cycle - models 7.45 6,9,11 write word equations to describe chemical reactions - models 7.46 3,6,9 relate characteristics of light and sound to waves (e.g., amplitude, pitch, wavelength, reflection, absorption rate, color) - systems 7.47 interpret characteristics of AC and DC circuits (e.g., batteries, transformers) - systems 7.48 experiment with simple machines to demonstrate the relationship between forces and distance - systems 7.49 explain the effect of gravity on falling objects (e.g., g= 9.8m/s 2 , object dropped on earth and on moon) - systems 7.50 4,5,6,8,9,10,11 relate physical changes to the Kinetic-Molecular Theory (e.g., molecular energy, molecular movement) - changes 7.51 explain qualitatively conservation of matter (e.g., water cycle, food chain, chemical reactions) - changes 7.52 8,9 explain qualitatively conservation of energy (e.g., potential energy to kinetic energy ) - changes 7.53 8,9 recognize that energy can be changed from one form to another (e.g., electrical to heat, electrical to mechanical, heat to mechanical) - changes 7.54 use vectors to represent direction of motion - models 7.55 5,6,8,9,10 analyze motion graphically - models 7.56 investigate application of lenses to science (e.g., microscopes, telescopes, magnifying glass, periscopes) - models 7.57 review fundamental earth science concepts including, motions of sun and moon, weather and topographic maps - systems 7.58 recognize that stars not only are different in age and size, but also in color, temperature and brightness - systems 7.59 describe and compare the physical characteristics of celestial objects - systems 7.60 10 depict and relate causes of tides, surfs and currents - systems 7.61 examine the relationships among air masses, oceans, weather, convection currents and the sun's energy - systems 7.62 demonstrate how natural phenomena and societal behaviors impact the environment - systems 7.63 identify and summarize origin of the universe theories - systems 7.64 understand mans' responsibility to recognize and solve problems involving the environment including solid waste management - systems 7.65 identify factors affecting living conditions in space - changes 7.66 compare and contrast geologic time - changes 7.67 4,10 construct and explain various models (e.g., motions of earth, sun and moon, ocean floor structures, coastal landforms and soil erosion) - models 7.68 3,8,10,11 given a topographical model or map, identify land features (e.g., mountains, rivers, valleys, lakes, glaciers, volcanoes) - models Science History 7.69 5,6 articulate the historical significance of scientific discoveries (e.g., as influenced by technological demands, competition, controversy, world events, personalities, societal issues) 7.70 5,6 compare the evolution of science concepts and theories (e.g., cells, plate tectonics, atoms, genetics) 7.71 5,6 examine the contributions of men and women of diverse cultures to the development of science Science, Technology, and Society 7.72 5,6,8,10 , 11 give examples of how science and technology are used in daily living 7.73 5,6,8,10,11 use the knowledge of science and technology to make personal decisions at the local and global levels 7.74 evaluate and critically analyze mass media reports of scientific developments and \nevents 7.75 5,6,8,10,11 critically analyze the effects and impacts of science and technology on global and local problems (e.g., mining, manufacturing, recycling, farming, water quality) 7.76 5,6,10 explore the connections between science, technology, society, and career opportunities 7.77 5,6,8,10,11 analyze the positive and negative effects of technology on society and the influence of societal pressures on the direction of technological advances Computer/Technology 7.78 use appropriate software, audio-visual, and/or multimedia materials to practice and master seventh grade instructional objectives in science 7.79 using the graphing application of appropriate software, select the suitable chart, table, or graph to display data 7.80 using the graphing application of appropriate software, create tables, charts, and/or graphs 7.81 use a calculator to perform mathematical functions in data analysis 7.82 use a variety of instruments (i.e. probes, thermometers, measuring devices) to perform measurements and record data 7.83 use appropriate software to practice reading, interpreting, analyzing, and evaluating the data on a map, chart, graph, table, and diagram 7.84 use appropriate software, practice extrapolating and interpolating information from a graph 7.85 use appropriate software to practice drawing conclusions from maps, diagrams, charts, graphs, and tables 7.86 use appropriate software to practice making predictions, inferences, and hypothesis from maps, diagrams, charts, graphs, and tables 7.87 input data using correct keying, editing, and formatting techniques 7.88 use a database to sort and search data to solve a specific problem 7.89 demonstrate a knowledge of how technology affects the ways in which people use resources 7.90 discriminate between ethical and unethical access to information 7.91 associate computer/technology activities with related careers 7.92 retrieve current data from a variety of electronic sources which might include the Internet, and/or software reference programs West Virginia Department of Education 1900 Kanawha Boulevard East Charleston, WV 25305 ( Phone List by Topics ) ( Staff Phone and Email by Name ) ( School Directory ) For suggestions, questions, problems contact the webmaster Please read our disclaimers",0.8142736554145813],["For example, they have leaves that have evolved into spines, which help minimize water loss by evaporation and screen the plant from the sun.",0.8089845776557922],["As a consequence of this, there are growing problems in the natural environment as well as the human environment, for example, eutrophication and human health respectively.",0.8080441355705261],["As a consequence of this, there are growing problems in the natural environment as well as the human environment, for example, eutrophication and human health respectively.",0.8080441355705261],["Regardless of the economy, the environment would receive energy from the sun, plants would use this energy to grow, animals would use the sun s energy indirectly through the plants, and the energy eventually would leave the system as heat.",0.8026202917098999],["Regardless of the economy, the environment would receive energy from the sun, plants would use this energy to grow, animals would use the sun s energy indirectly through the plants, and the energy eventually would leave the system as heat.",0.8026202917098999],["Regardless of the economy, the environment would receive energy from the sun, plants would use this energy to grow, animals would use the sun s energy indirectly through the plants, and the energy eventually would leave the system as heat.",0.8026202917098999],["Garden: Family Garden Inquiry: Discovering Plant Families Forest Soil as a Home Wheat: From Seed to Bread Grade 2 Developmental How do individuals in natural and human ecosystems help each other?",0.8023411631584167],["Human activities are changing environments at an unprecedented rate. There are basically two ways in which species can persist in one location in the face of such change: genetic adaptation over generations and phenotypic plasticity within an individual's lifetime. This project studies both of these plant responses to environmental change in two systems; native species of alpine habitats, which may be affected dramatically by global climate change, and weedy crop relatives that may serve as indicators of plant adaptation to degrading farmland quality. There is evidence that global climate regimes are already affecting patterns of snow melt in arctic and alpine sites of North America. To determine how native plants may respond to this, we are studying a natural snowbed across which snow melt date varies by six weeks over tens of meters. Transplantation experiments, coupled with manipulations of snow depth, have yielded several results. Change in snow melt regime affects seed size, seed quality, and potentially dispersal ability of native alpine species. Some species respond markedly to rapid changes in growing season, while others do not. The ability of all species to respond to changes in growing season length is greater in fertile, compared with unproductive, sites. For the weed system, selection experiments designed to test the process of acclimation and adaptation by BRASSICA RAPA to a range of environmental stresses has just begun.",0.7965133786201477],["There are a number of ways living things need nonliving ones, depending on how complex the organism is. <br /><br /> Firstly, all living things are made up of nonliving matter, particularly carbon, so to grow or reproduce, they must take in more carbon. Plants, for example, take it from carbon dioxide in the air during photosynthesis, while animals get it either by eating plants, or by eating other animals that have eaten plants. <br /><br /> Water is also a necessary inanimate substance - it is both a transport mechanism, carrying nutrients around the body, and part of the chemical reaction of photosynthesis in plants and algae, where it reacts with carbon dioxide from the air to make sugars, which store the energy needed for the plant to live and grow. <br /><br /> Carbon, Nitrogen, Hydrogen, Oxygen and Phosphorus are also needed to make DNA and RNA. <br /><br /> In animals, iron is necessary for the production of haemoglobin, which transports oxygen around the body. <br /><br /> 25 chemical elements are essential for life: carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 96% of the body, with calcium, phosphorus, potassium, chlorine, sodium, sulphur and magnesium making up another 3.5% and the rest being trace amounts of boron, chromium, cobalt, copper, fluorine, iodine, iron, manganese, molybdenum, selenium, silicon, tin and vanadium. <br /><br /> Beyond simply being parts of a living thing's body and thus essential to take in to maintain life, nonliving things also comprise parts of our environment. All living things are adapted for certain types of environment - some to the point of dying if placed in an environment sufficiently different. In its own environment, a life form is able to outperform potential competitors that are not as well adapted and thus is more likely to survive. Dump a hyena at the South Pole and it will have a very hard time catching penguins as they skid across the ice and swim away, and eventually either starve or freeze. <br /><br /> Animals can mitigate the negative effects of their environment using some of the things around them: a cave offers shelter, a forest offers concealment, a high altitude offers a low oxygen pressure in the air that will leave a lowland predator breathless. <br />And among the most complex animals, nonliving things become tools, crafted and used to change the environment to facilitate survival. Some animals use inanimate objects to build displays and secure a mate. A few primates have discovered they can use sticks to access food in inaccessible places, and that they can throw rocks and faeces to drive off enemies. <br /><br /> Humans are the ultimate user of tools. Wood and flint are used to make fire, which creates warmth, is used to kill potentially harmful bacteria and parasites in food by cooking, sheds light so we can see what is around is. Rocks and sticks, then metal, were used to make weapons for fighting (to claim a better environment) and hunting. Hides and fibres were used to make clothes, to protect us from sun, rain and wind; wood and stone can be used to build our own shelters, and so on.",0.7954491376876831],["There are a number of ways living things need nonliving ones, depending on how complex the organism is. Firstly, all living things are made up of nonliving matter, particula…rly carbon, so to grow or reproduce, they must take in more carbon. Plants, for example, take it from carbon dioxide in the air during photosynthesis, while animals get it either by eating plants, or by eating other animals that have eaten plants. Water is also a necessary inanimate substance - it is both a transport mechanism, carrying nutrients around the body, and part of the chemical reaction of photosynthesis in plants and algae, where it reacts with carbon dioxide from the air to make sugars, which store the energy needed for the plant to live and grow. Carbon, Nitrogen, Hydrogen, Oxygen and Phosphorus are also needed to make DNA and RNA. In animals, iron is necessary for the production of haemoglobin, which transports oxygen around the body. 25 chemical elements are essential for life: carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 96% of the body, with calcium, phosphorus, potassium, chlorine, sodium, sulphur and magnesium making up another 3.5% and the rest being trace amounts of boron, chromium, cobalt, copper, fluorine, iodine, iron, manganese, molybdenum, selenium, silicon, tin and vanadium. Beyond simply being parts of a living thing's body and thus essential to take in to maintain life, nonliving things also comprise parts of our environment. All living things are adapted for certain types of environment - some to the point of dying if placed in an environment sufficiently different. In its own environment, a life form is able to outperform potential competitors that are not as well adapted and thus is more likely to survive. Dump a hyena at the South Pole and it will have a very hard time catching penguins as they skid across the ice and swim away, and eventually either starve or freeze. Animals can mitigate the negative effects of their environment using some of the things around them: a cave offers shelter, a forest offers concealment, a high altitude offers a low oxygen pressure in the air that will leave a lowland predator breathless. And among the most complex animals, nonliving things become tools, crafted and used to change the environment to facilitate survival. Some animals use inanimate objects to build displays and secure a mate. A few primates have discovered they can use sticks to access food in inaccessible places, and that they can throw rocks and faeces to drive off enemies. Humans are the ultimate user of tools. Wood and flint are used to make fire, which creates warmth, is used to kill potentially harmful bacteria and parasites in food by cooking, sheds light so we can see what is around is. Rocks and sticks, then metal, were used to make weapons for fighting (to claim a better environment) and hunting. Hides and fibres were used to make clothes, to protect us from sun, rain and wind; wood and stone can be used to build our own shelters, and so on.",0.7954491376876831],["There are a number of ways living things need nonliving ones, depending on how complex the organism is. Firstly, all living things are made up of nonliving matter, particula…rly carbon, so to grow or reproduce, they must take in more carbon. Plants, for example, take it from carbon dioxide in the air during photosynthesis, while animals get it either by eating plants, or by eating other animals that have eaten plants. Water is also a necessary inanimate substance - it is both a transport mechanism, carrying nutrients around the body, and part of the chemical reaction of photosynthesis in plants and algae, where it reacts with carbon dioxide from the air to make sugars, which store the energy needed for the plant to live and grow. Carbon, Nitrogen, Hydrogen, Oxygen and Phosphorus are also needed to make DNA and RNA. In animals, iron is necessary for the production of haemoglobin, which transports oxygen around the body. 25 chemical elements are essential for life: carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 96% of the body, with calcium, phosphorus, potassium, chlorine, sodium, sulphur and magnesium making up another 3.5% and the rest being trace amounts of boron, chromium, cobalt, copper, fluorine, iodine, iron, manganese, molybdenum, selenium, silicon, tin and vanadium. Beyond simply being parts of a living thing's body and thus essential to take in to maintain life, nonliving things also comprise parts of our environment. All living things are adapted for certain types of environment - some to the point of dying if placed in an environment sufficiently different. In its own environment, a life form is able to outperform potential competitors that are not as well adapted and thus is more likely to survive. Dump a hyena at the South Pole and it will have a very hard time catching penguins as they skid across the ice and swim away, and eventually either starve or freeze. Animals can mitigate the negative effects of their environment using some of the things around them: a cave offers shelter, a forest offers concealment, a high altitude offers a low oxygen pressure in the air that will leave a lowland predator breathless. And among the most complex animals, nonliving things become tools, crafted and used to change the environment to facilitate survival. Some animals use inanimate objects to build displays and secure a mate. A few primates have discovered they can use sticks to access food in inaccessible places, and that they can throw rocks and faeces to drive off enemies. Humans are the ultimate user of tools. Wood and flint are used to make fire, which creates warmth, is used to kill potentially harmful bacteria and parasites in food by cooking, sheds light so we can see what is around is. Rocks and sticks, then metal, were used to make weapons for fighting (to claim a better environment) and hunting. Hides and fibres were used to make clothes, to protect us from sun, rain and wind; wood and stone can be used to build our own shelters, and so on.",0.7954491376876831],["There are a number of ways living things need nonliving ones, depending on how complex the organism is. Firstly, all living things are made up of nonliving matter, particula…rly carbon, so to grow or reproduce, they must take in more carbon. Plants, for example, take it from carbon dioxide in the air during photosynthesis, while animals get it either by eating plants, or by eating other animals that have eaten plants. Water is also a necessary inanimate substance - it is both a transport mechanism, carrying nutrients around the body, and part of the chemical reaction of photosynthesis in plants and algae, where it reacts with carbon dioxide from the air to make sugars, which store the energy needed for the plant to live and grow. Carbon, Nitrogen, Hydrogen, Oxygen and Phosphorus are also needed to make DNA and RNA. In animals, iron is necessary for the production of haemoglobin, which transports oxygen around the body. 25 chemical elements are essential for life: carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 96% of the body, with calcium, phosphorus, potassium, chlorine, sodium, sulphur and magnesium making up another 3.5% and the rest being trace amounts of boron, chromium, cobalt, copper, fluorine, iodine, iron, manganese, molybdenum, selenium, silicon, tin and vanadium. Beyond simply being parts of a living thing's body and thus essential to take in to maintain life, nonliving things also comprise parts of our environment. All living things are adapted for certain types of environment - some to the point of dying if placed in an environment sufficiently different. In its own environment, a life form is able to outperform potential competitors that are not as well adapted and thus is more likely to survive. Dump a hyena at the South Pole and it will have a very hard time catching penguins as they skid across the ice and swim away, and eventually either starve or freeze. Animals can mitigate the negative effects of their environment using some of the things around them: a cave offers shelter, a forest offers concealment, a high altitude offers a low oxygen pressure in the air that will leave a lowland predator breathless. And among the most complex animals, nonliving things become tools, crafted and used to change the environment to facilitate survival. Some animals use inanimate objects to build displays and secure a mate. A few primates have discovered they can use sticks to access food in inaccessible places, and that they can throw rocks and faeces to drive off enemies. Humans are the ultimate user of tools. Wood and flint are used to make fire, which creates warmth, is used to kill potentially harmful bacteria and parasites in food by cooking, sheds light so we can see what is around is. Rocks and sticks, then metal, were used to make weapons for fighting (to claim a better environment) and hunting. Hides and fibres were used to make clothes, to protect us from sun, rain and wind; wood and stone can be used to build our own shelters, and so on.",0.7954491376876831],["There are a number of ways living things need nonliving ones, depending on how complex the organism is. Firstly, all living things are made up of nonliving matter, particula…rly carbon, so to grow or reproduce, they must take in more carbon. Plants, for example, take it from carbon dioxide in the air during photosynthesis, while animals get it either by eating plants, or by eating other animals that have eaten plants. Water is also a necessary inanimate substance - it is both a transport mechanism, carrying nutrients around the body, and part of the chemical reaction of photosynthesis in plants and algae, where it reacts with carbon dioxide from the air to make sugars, which store the energy needed for the plant to live and grow. Carbon, Nitrogen, Hydrogen, Oxygen and Phosphorus are also needed to make DNA and RNA. In animals, iron is necessary for the production of haemoglobin, which transports oxygen around the body. 25 chemical elements are essential for life: carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 96% of the body, with calcium, phosphorus, potassium, chlorine, sodium, sulphur and magnesium making up another 3.5% and the rest being trace amounts of boron, chromium, cobalt, copper, fluorine, iodine, iron, manganese, molybdenum, selenium, silicon, tin and vanadium. Beyond simply being parts of a living thing's body and thus essential to take in to maintain life, nonliving things also comprise parts of our environment. All living things are adapted for certain types of environment - some to the point of dying if placed in an environment sufficiently different. In its own environment, a life form is able to outperform potential competitors that are not as well adapted and thus is more likely to survive. Dump a hyena at the South Pole and it will have a very hard time catching penguins as they skid across the ice and swim away, and eventually either starve or freeze. Animals can mitigate the negative effects of their environment using some of the things around them: a cave offers shelter, a forest offers concealment, a high altitude offers a low oxygen pressure in the air that will leave a lowland predator breathless. And among the most complex animals, nonliving things become tools, crafted and used to change the environment to facilitate survival. Some animals use inanimate objects to build displays and secure a mate. A few primates have discovered they can use sticks to access food in inaccessible places, and that they can throw rocks and faeces to drive off enemies. Humans are the ultimate user of tools. Wood and flint are used to make fire, which creates warmth, is used to kill potentially harmful bacteria and parasites in food by cooking, sheds light so we can see what is around is. Rocks and sticks, then metal, were used to make weapons for fighting (to claim a better environment) and hunting. Hides and fibres were used to make clothes, to protect us from sun, rain and wind; wood and stone can be used to build our own shelters, and so on.",0.7954491376876831],["There are a number of ways living things need nonliving ones, depending on how complex the organism is. Firstly, all living things are made up of nonliving matter, particula…rly carbon, so to grow or reproduce, they must take in more carbon. Plants, for example, take it from carbon dioxide in the air during photosynthesis, while animals get it either by eating plants, or by eating other animals that have eaten plants. Water is also a necessary inanimate substance - it is both a transport mechanism, carrying nutrients around the body, and part of the chemical reaction of photosynthesis in plants and algae, where it reacts with carbon dioxide from the air to make sugars, which store the energy needed for the plant to live and grow. Carbon, Nitrogen, Hydrogen, Oxygen and Phosphorus are also needed to make DNA and RNA. In animals, iron is necessary for the production of haemoglobin, which transports oxygen around the body. 25 chemical elements are essential for life: carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 96% of the body, with calcium, phosphorus, potassium, chlorine, sodium, sulphur and magnesium making up another 3.5% and the rest being trace amounts of boron, chromium, cobalt, copper, fluorine, iodine, iron, manganese, molybdenum, selenium, silicon, tin and vanadium. Beyond simply being parts of a living thing's body and thus essential to take in to maintain life, nonliving things also comprise parts of our environment. All living things are adapted for certain types of environment - some to the point of dying if placed in an environment sufficiently different. In its own environment, a life form is able to outperform potential competitors that are not as well adapted and thus is more likely to survive. Dump a hyena at the South Pole and it will have a very hard time catching penguins as they skid across the ice and swim away, and eventually either starve or freeze. Animals can mitigate the negative effects of their environment using some of the things around them: a cave offers shelter, a forest offers concealment, a high altitude offers a low oxygen pressure in the air that will leave a lowland predator breathless. And among the most complex animals, nonliving things become tools, crafted and used to change the environment to facilitate survival. Some animals use inanimate objects to build displays and secure a mate. A few primates have discovered they can use sticks to access food in inaccessible places, and that they can throw rocks and faeces to drive off enemies. Humans are the ultimate user of tools. Wood and flint are used to make fire, which creates warmth, is used to kill potentially harmful bacteria and parasites in food by cooking, sheds light so we can see what is around is. Rocks and sticks, then metal, were used to make weapons for fighting (to claim a better environment) and hunting. Hides and fibres were used to make clothes, to protect us from sun, rain and wind; wood and stone can be used to build our own shelters, and so on.",0.7954491376876831],["There are a number of ways living things need nonliving ones, depending on how complex the organism is. Firstly, all living things are made up of nonliving matter, particula…rly carbon, so to grow or reproduce, they must take in more carbon. Plants, for example, take it from carbon dioxide in the air during photosynthesis, while animals get it either by eating plants, or by eating other animals that have eaten plants. Water is also a necessary inanimate substance - it is both a transport mechanism, carrying nutrients around the body, and part of the chemical reaction of photosynthesis in plants and algae, where it reacts with carbon dioxide from the air to make sugars, which store the energy needed for the plant to live and grow. Carbon, Nitrogen, Hydrogen, Oxygen and Phosphorus are also needed to make DNA and RNA. In animals, iron is necessary for the production of haemoglobin, which transports oxygen around the body. 25 chemical elements are essential for life: carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 96% of the body, with calcium, phosphorus, potassium, chlorine, sodium, sulphur and magnesium making up another 3.5% and the rest being trace amounts of boron, chromium, cobalt, copper, fluorine, iodine, iron, manganese, molybdenum, selenium, silicon, tin and vanadium. Beyond simply being parts of a living thing's body and thus essential to take in to maintain life, nonliving things also comprise parts of our environment. All living things are adapted for certain types of environment - some to the point of dying if placed in an environment sufficiently different. In its own environment, a life form is able to outperform potential competitors that are not as well adapted and thus is more likely to survive. Dump a hyena at the South Pole and it will have a very hard time catching penguins as they skid across the ice and swim away, and eventually either starve or freeze. Animals can mitigate the negative effects of their environment using some of the things around them: a cave offers shelter, a forest offers concealment, a high altitude offers a low oxygen pressure in the air that will leave a lowland predator breathless. And among the most complex animals, nonliving things become tools, crafted and used to change the environment to facilitate survival. Some animals use inanimate objects to build displays and secure a mate. A few primates have discovered they can use sticks to access food in inaccessible places, and that they can throw rocks and faeces to drive off enemies. Humans are the ultimate user of tools. Wood and flint are used to make fire, which creates warmth, is used to kill potentially harmful bacteria and parasites in food by cooking, sheds light so we can see what is around is. Rocks and sticks, then metal, were used to make weapons for fighting (to claim a better environment) and hunting. Hides and fibres were used to make clothes, to protect us from sun, rain and wind; wood and stone can be used to build our own shelters, and so on.",0.7954491376876831],["It tells you how to use natural objects from the shamanic worlds -- Plant, Mineral, Animal, and Human -- to help make this personal connection with Earth energies.",0.7930766344070435],["Like the codfish, human-caused pollution can come in different forms. Radiotrophic fungi is a perfect example of natural selection taking place after a chemical accident. Radiotrophic fungi appears to use the pigment melanin to convert gamma radiation into chemical energy for growth [195] [196] and were first discovered in 2007 as black molds growing inside and around the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant . [195] Research at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine showed that three melanin-containing fungi, Cladosporium sphaerospermum , Wangiella dermatitidis , and Cryptococcus neoformans , increased in biomass and accumulated acetate faster in an environment in which the radiation level was 500 times higher than in the normal environment.",0.7926124930381775],["Like the codfish, human-caused pollution can come in different forms. Radiotrophic fungi is a perfect example of natural selection taking place after a chemical accident. Radiotrophic fungi appears to use the pigment melanin to convert gamma radiation into chemical energy for growth [195] [196] and were first discovered in 2007 as black molds growing inside and around the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant . [195] Research at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine showed that three melanin-containing fungi, Cladosporium sphaerospermum , Wangiella dermatitidis , and Cryptococcus neoformans , increased in biomass and accumulated acetate faster in an environment in which the radiation level was 500 times higher than in the normal environment.",0.7926124930381775],["desiccation of the Aral Sea and associated dust storms caused by the diversion of water to irrigation projects in Central Asia could be lessened by ending the diversion and finding alternative water sources) Geography Standard 15: How physical systems affect human systems By the end of the twelfth grade, the student knows and understands: How changes in the physical environment can diminish its capacity to support human activity Strategies to respond to constraints placed on human systems by the physical environment How humans perceive and react to natural hazards Therefore, the student is able to: A. Analyze examples of changes in the physical environment that have reduced the capacity of the environment to support human activity, as exemplified by being able to Describe and evaluate the carrying capacity of selected regions to predict the likely consequence of exceeding their environmental limits (e.g., the impact of the economic exploitation of Siberias resources on a fragile sub-Arctic environment) Develop contemporary and historical case studies to serve as examples of the limited ability of physical systems to withstand human pressure or of situations in which the environments quality and ability to support human populations has diminished because of excessive use (e.g., the drought-plagued Sahel, the depleted rain forests of central Africa, the Great Plains Dust Bowl) Develop a model using concepts of synergy, feedback loops, carrying capacity, and thresholds to describe the limits of physical systems in different environments to absorb the impacts of human activities B. Apply the concept of limits to growth to suggest ways to adapt to or overcome the limits imposed on human systems by physical systems, as exemplified by being able to Describe the limits to growth found in physical environments and describe ways in which techonology and human adaptation enable people to expand the capacity of such environments Describe the conditions and locations of soil types (e.g., soils with limited nutrients, high salt contect, shallow depth) that place limits on plant growth and therefore on the expansion of human settlement and suggest alternative uses for areas of those soil types Identify physical environments in which limits to growth are significant (e.g., extremely cold, arid, or humid tropical climates and mountainous and coastal environments), describe the conditions that may threaten humans in these environments (e.g., rises in population that place pressure on marginal areas), and then develop plans to alleviate such stresses C. Explain the ways in which individuals and societies hold varying perceptions of natural hazards in different environments and have different ways of reacting to them, as exemplified by being able to Collect personal and group responses to different natural hazards before, during, and after the event, and summarize the varying perceptions of natural hazards in different regions of the world Conduct interviews to assess peoples attitudes, perceptions, and responses toward natural hazards in the local community and explain patterns that may emerge (e.g., the effects of religious beliefs, socioeconomic status, previous experience, and other factors on perception and responses toward hazards) Evaluate the effectiveness of human attempts to limit damage from natural hazards and explain how people who live in naturally hazardous religions adapt to their environments (e.g., the use of sea walls to protect coastal areas subject to severe storms, the use of earthquake-resistant construction techniques in different regions within the Ring of Fire Geography Standard 16: The changes that occur in the meaning, use, distribution, and importance of resources By the end of the twelfth grade, the student knows and understands: How the spatial distribution of resources affects patterns of human settlement How resource development and use change over time The geographic results of policies and programs for resource use and management Therefore, the student is able to: A. Analyze the relationshiips between the spatial distribution of settlement and resources, as exemplified by being able to Describe how patterns of settlement are associated with the location of resources (e.g., the organization of farming activities around agglomerated settlements in Southeast Asia;",0.7923251986503601],["For example, plants transform radiant energy from the sun into chemical energy which is stored within the plant.",0.7921077013015747],["For example, plants transform radiant energy from the sun into chemical energy which is stored within the plant.",0.7921077013015747],["Knows that the tilt of the Earth's axis and Earth's revolution around the Sun affect seasons Knows that the Sun is the principal energy source for phenomena on the Earth's surface (e.g., plant growth) Knows how winds and ocean currents are produced on Earth's surface Knows the major external and internal sources of energy on Earth (e.g., the Sun is the major external source of energy) Knows that hereditary information is contained in genes (located in the chromosomes of each cell) Knows that plants and animals have features that help them live in different environments Knows that each plant or animal has different structures which serve different functions in growth, survival, and reproduction Knows that organisms have a great variety of body plans and internal structures that serve specific functions for survival Knows that all organisms are composed of cells, which are the fundamental units of life;",0.7909975647926331],["On the research side, the next fifty years will continue the path of genetically altering wheat-- for example, the exchange of genes between plant species-- with the hopes of lowering the cost of growing wheat or perhaps helping the wheat ward off pests and diseases.",0.7902168035507202],["Unit 4: Energy, Ecology and the Environment : Strategies of survival, trophic levels, nutrient, water and carbon cycles, environmental pressures for natural selection and adaptation, Florida plant communities, human impacts on ecosystems and organisms, and global changes in the environment.",0.789239764213562],["X1011773052-00121-34614</DOCNO> Environment and Society HGA Standards Grade 9-12 ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY Geography Standard 14: How human actions modify the physical environment By the end of the twelfth grade, the student knows and understands: The role of technology in the capacity of the physical environment to accommodate human modification The significance of the global impacts of human modification of the physial environment How to apply appropriate models and information to understand environmental problems Therefore, the student is able to: A. Evaluate the ways in which technology has expanded the human capability to modify the physical environment, as exemplified by being able to Evaluate the limitations of the physical environments capacity to absorb the impacts of human activity (e.g., use the concepts of synergy, feedback loops, carrying capacity, thresholds to examine the effects of such activities as levee construction on a floodplain, logging in an old-growth forest, construction of golf courses in arid areas) Analyze the role of people in decreasing the diversity of flora and fauna in a region (e.g., the impact of acid rain on rivers and forests in southern Ontario, the effects of toxic dumping on ocean ecosystems, the effects of overfishing along the coast of northeastern North America or the Philippine archipelago) Compare the ways in which the students local community modified the local physical environment (e.g., rivers, soils, vegetation, animals, climate) a hundred years ago with the communitys current impact on the same environment, and project future trends based on these local experiences B. Explain the global impacts of human changes in the physical environment, as exemplified by being able to Describe the spatial consequences, deliberate and inadvertent, of human activities that have global implications (e.g., the dispersal of animal and plant species worldwide increases in runoff and sediment, tropical soil degradation, habitat destruction, air pollution, alterations in the hydrologic cycle) Identify and debate the positive and negative aspects of landscape changes in the students local community and region that relate to peoples changing attitudes toward the environment (e.g., pressure to replace farmlands with wetlands in floodplain areas, interest in preserving wilderness areas, support of the concept of historic preservation) Examine the characteristics of major global environmental changes and assess whether the changes are a result of human action, natural causes, or a conmbination of both factors (e.g., increases in world temperatures attributable to major global action, the link between changes in solar emissions and amounts of volcanic dust in the atmosphere attributable to natural causes) C. Develop possible solutions to scenarios of environmental change induced by human modification of the physical environment, as exemplified by being able to Identify possible responses to the changes that take place in a river system as adjacent farmland is fertilized more intensively and as settlement expands into the floodplain Choose examples of human modification of the landscape \nin the nineteenth and twentieth centuries and compare the ways in which the physical environments ability to accommodate such modification has changed (e.g., urban development in the United States, especially in the High Plains, the Southwest, and Northeast;",0.7840753793716431],["There is a lot of things in the world, and these things all start from one specific thing, called the producer. Take the plankton for an example. The sun first gives off its natural energy to the people. With water and oxygen, slowly the plant grows green and healthy, causing it to grow tasty and fresh fruits which are later eaten by other small animals. As you can see, the producer is the main source to the whole world, and the objects that live in this world continue the cycle on and on. This cycle goes on and on, nonstop, and the world will always kill itself and recreate. Think of it like the human cycle. Every day, humans will die, but everyday humans will be born. All in all, producers are the main sources to the world, and they are the one that makes our life so full of life, energy, and excitement.",0.7835456728935242],["214 Principles of Environmental Biology (2nd sem) Examines the nature of the relationships of plants, animals, and humans to their environment and how these may change when pollutants are introduced.",0.7832168936729431],["214 Principles of Environmental Biology (2nd sem) Examines the nature of the relationships of plants, animals, and humans to their environment and how these may change when pollutants are introduced.",0.7832168936729431],["Energy (from the sun) and elements (from soils, water, and the atmosphere) flow from the environment into plants organisms when they photosynthesize and grow.",0.7813403010368347],["Tip: Hall also advises planting in masses, taking examples from the way plants grow in their natural environments.",0.7813200354576111],["Tip: Hall also advises planting in masses, taking examples from the way plants grow in their natural environments.",0.7813200354576111],["once the energy is taken into the plant-eating animals, those animals may themselves be eaten by carnivores, so the sunlight energy leaps one more step, and there can be steps beyond that, even to us humans by decomposition organisms such as fungi and bacteria, which break down once-living tissue into simple constituents, in the process releasing into nature the energy stored among the atomic bonds, plus using some of that energy for fueling their own life functions With regard to the second of the above energy usages, if it is accepted that the thoughts expressed by these words you are reading right now are a consequence of an investment of my energy, and it is known that I am a vegetarian, then the above simple formula can be changed to this: sun --&gt; plants --&gt; me --&gt; energy fueling my effort --&gt; these words Therefore, if something in this book strikes you in a particular manner, then the impression it makes is the result of my having used second-hand sunlight energy to express myself.",0.7789992690086365],["Scientific Investigation, Reasoning, and Logic Students: plan, conduct, and participate in science investigations use simple instruments, such as the magnifying glass, and the five senses to observe the physical environment arrange and classify objects according to attributes or properties communicate data orally and through simple graphs, pictures, written statements, and numbers measure length, mass, and volume using standard and nonstandard units make predictions based on patterns of observation rather than random guesses conduct simple experiments to answer questions Earth and Space Science Students: investigate and understand Earth s natural resources and how to protect them explain why air, water, and soil are natural resources describe ways to protect Earth s natural resources Students: develop an understanding of seasonal changes and cyclical patterns in nature, including temperature, precipitation, and cloud formation observe and communicate the day s weather orally and through graphic representations both on a daily basis and over a period of time use a thermometer as a tool to record the rise and fall of temperature&#9; observe and describe in general terms how a cloud is formed (water cycle) observe and describe the various states of water--solid, liquid, gas (ice, water, water vapor/steam) &#9; Life Science Students: use their senses to explore their surroundings and obtain different information from each sense work in groups to generate a visual organizer ( a web chart) showing how the senses can be used to describe the world around them observe plants and animals during seasonal changes gather and record data in a factual manner Students: investigate and understand that plants have life needs and functional parts and can be classified according to certain characteristics identify the characteristics of plants including edible or nonedible, flowering or nonflowering, evergreen or deciduous (trees that lose their leaves in the winter) identify the needs of a plant including, air, water, light, and a place to grow identify the various sources from which plants grow, including seeds, bulbs, and parts of plants grow plants from seed and identify plant structures ( roots, stems, leaves) and their functions describe methods by which seeds travel investigate and understand the life cycle of plants understand that plants are a natural resource and that they are important to all life Students: investigate and understand that animals have life needs and specific physical characteristics identify the characteristics of animals including whether they are wild or tame or live in water homes or land homes identify the needs of animals including air, food, water, and a suitable place to live identify that animals have physical characteristics such as body coverings (scales, skin, hair, feathers), body shapes, different number of appendages, and body movements observe and record observations of earthworms identify the basic body parts of an earthworm and the stages of the earthworm s life cycle including egg, hatchling, and adult investigate through \nexperimentation, observation, and data records an earthworm s reaction to different types of soil and light create an appropriate habitat for an earthworm using knowledge from investigations Students: investigate and understand that natural resources are limited identify the following as natural resources: plants and animals, water, air, land, minerals, forests, and soils describe how reducing, reusing, and recycling wastes can help save natural resources Physical Science Students: investigate and understand how different materials interact with water observe and describe the results of mixing liquids and some everyday solids such as baking soda, chalk, powdered drink mix, sugar, and salt;",0.7772408723831177],["Since the home is not a natural environment to grow plants, many people have trouble growing houseplants, especially in the northeast. This tour will make you aware of some of the better houseplants and how to take care of them in an artificial environment.",0.777103066444397],["The photosynthesising plant is constrained by its genetic inheritance. Its inner organisation is such as to exploit the existence of light. But if that energy source changed in a way that affected the ability or efficiency of the photosynthetic equipment to harness it, the plant’s response is limited by how it has evolved so far. Many higher plants display phototropism , in that they can change their growing patterns in order to grow towards the light. But if the sun suddenly changed the range of light wavelengths it emitted, or a person dug up the plant and shut it away in a dark room, it would have no survival strategies. The plant’s intricate photosynthetic equipment developed over long, evolutionary, timescales. Its limited mechanical responses (phototropism; autumn leaf fall; opening and closing of stomata ) also evolved over those same evolutionary timescales, over which patterns of change (night and day; weather; seasons) were themselves largely unchanging.",0.777034342288971],["And finally in November, FirstEnergy purchased the rights to develop a compressed-air electric generating plant in Norton, Ohio, which Ohio Governor Ted Strickland praised as \"an example of how we can leverage technology and our natural resources to grow our economy and ensure our energy future.\"",0.7767574787139893]]