[["9 How does the food chain actually work? A food chain is the path of energy in food from one organism to another. The producers (mostly plants) grow and become food for the consumers. The consumers eat the producers and some consumers eat other consumers. The decomposers break down dead matter (plant and animal) and return nutrients to the soil which helps the producers grow. Those worms in your yard have a very important job! All food can be traced back to plants! If one part of this chain is broken, the whole chain is disrupted.",2.4835658073425293],["Food Chain Game - 5th Grade Standard 4-5 LS2C: Plants and animals are related in food webs with producers (plants that make their own food), consumers (animals that eat producers and/or other animals), and decomposers (primarily bacteria and fungi) that break down wastes and dead organisms, and return nutrients to the soil",2.2345123291015625],["Food Chain Game - 5th Grade Standard 4-5 LS2C: Plants and animals are related in food webs with producers (plants that make their own food), consumers (animals that eat producers and/or other animals), and decomposers (primarily bacteria and fungi) that break down wastes and dead organisms, and return nutrients to the soil",2.2345123291015625],["The food chain begins with primary producers, such as green plants, that get energy from the sun and convert it to food through photosynthesis. Primary consumers, or herbivores, eat plants, secondary consumers eat primary consumers, and even tertiary or quaternary consumers enter the food chain. At the end of the chain, fungi and other decomposers take care of the “waste” in the food chain by consuming dead plants or animals. Decomposers complete the food chain cycle, and when nutrients return to the soil, a new food chain begins.",2.0870137214660645],["This Food Chain poster is designed to aide students in understanding that energy is transferred from one thing to another in a food chain. All energy comes from the Sun, to the producers (plants), then to different levels of consumers. Once the animals die, they are decomposed and the nutrients that are in their bodies are returned to the soil.",2.0466456413269043],["When plants and animals die, they are broken down by decomposers .  The nutrients return to the soil and can be used by the producers .",2.017230749130249],["One common food pattern is called the grazing food chain. Grasses and other green plants (the producers) using solar energy are the base of this food chain. They are eaten by herbivores (the consumers). Herbivores are consumed by carnivores or by omnivores. Another common food chain, called the detritus food chain, begins with the remains of plants and animals. These remains are slowly broken down by organisms, such as bacteria and fungithe decomposers. In this process, nutrients are returned to the soil and then used again by plants.",1.9831680059432983],["Chapter 42 Ecosystems (Sections 42.1 - 42.6) 42.1 Too Much of a Good Thing Human activities can disrupt nutrient cycles that have been operating since long before humans existed Phosphorus is often a limiting factor for aquatic producers, and sudden addition of phosphorus (eutrophication) causes algal blooms that cloud water and threaten aquatic species eutrophication Nutrient enrichment of an aquatic ecosystem Experiment: Phosphorus Enrichment Fig. 42.1, p. 709 nitrogen, carbon, phosphorus added nitrogen, carbon added Experiment: Phosphorus Enrichment 42.2 The Nature of Ecosystems In ecosystems, organisms and their environment interact through a one-way flow of energy and a cycling of nutrients Ecosytems require ongoing inputs of energy (open systems) Nutrients taken up by producers are returned to the environment by decomposers, then taken up again Energy Flows, Nutrients Cycle Light energy that enters the system returns to the environment as heat Nutrients are continually recycled Fig. 42.2, p. 710 heat energy Consumers animals; fungi; heterotrophic protists, bacteria, and archaeans materials cycling Producers plants; photosynthetic protists and bacteria energy in chemical bonds light energy Energy Flows, Nutrients Cycle Producers plants; photosynthetic protists and bacteria light energy Fig. 42.2, p. 710 heat energy Consumers animals; fungi; heterotrophic protists, bacteria, and archaeans materials cycling energy in chemical bonds Stepped Art Energy Flows, Nutrients Cycle ANIMATION: One-way energy flow and materials cycling To play movie you must be in Slide Show Mode PC Users: Please wait for content to load, then click to play Mac Users: CLICK HERE Primary Producers and Production An ecosystem runs on energy captured by primary producers primary producer (autotroph) An organism that obtains energy and nutrients from inorganic sources to build organic compounds primary production Rate at which producers capture and store energy Varies by ecosystem, season, and nutrient availability The Roles of Consumers Consumers are described by their diets: Herbivores (plants) Carnivores (animal flesh) Parasites (tissues of a living host) Omnivores (plants and animals) Detritivores (detritus) Decomposers (waste and remains) Key Terms consumer Organism that obtains energy and carbon by feeding on tissues, wastes, or remains of other organisms detritivore Consumer that feed on small bits of organic material decomposer Organism that feeds on biological remains and breaks organic material down into its inorganic subunits Energy Flow and Nutrient Cycling Heat energy is not recycled: Energy captured by producers is converted to bond energy in organic molecules, and released by metabolic reactions that give off heat Nutrients are recycled: Producers take up inorganic molecules (nutrients) from the environment to form organic molecules Decomposers break down organic molecules and return nutrients to the environment ANIMATION: The role of organisms in an ecosystem To play movie you must be in Slide Show Mode PC Users: Please wait for content to load, then click to play Mac Users: CLICK HERE ANIMATION: Food chain To play movie you must be in Slide Show Mode PC Users: Please wait for content to load, then click to play Mac Users: CLICK HERE 42.3 Food Chains Food chains describe how energy and materials are transferred from one organism to another food chain Description of who eats whom in one path of energy in an ecosystem – transfer of energy to higher trophic levels trophic level Position of an organism in a food chain A Food Chain First trophic level (primary producer): Autotroph (grass) converts light to chemical energy Second trophic level (primary consumer): Grasshopper eats grass Third trophic level (second-level consumer): Bird eats grasshopper Fourth trophic level (third-level consumer): Coyote eats bird A Food Chain Fig. 42.3, p. 711 First Trophic Level Primary producer Second Trophic Level Primary consumer Third Trophic Level Second-level consumer Fourth Trophic Level Third-level consumer big bluestem grass grasshopper coyote sparrow A Food Chain Fig. 42.3.1, p. 711 A Food Chain Fig. 42.3.2, p. 711 A Food Chain Fig. 42.3.3, p. 711 A Food Chain Fig. 42.3.4, p. 711 A Food Chain Food Chain Limits Energy captured by producers usually passes through no more than four or five trophic levels The length of food chains is restricted by the inefficiency of energy transfers Only 5-30% of energy in an organism at one trophic level ends up in tissues of an organism at the next trophic level 42.4 Food Webs Food chains of an ecosystem cross-connect as a food web Food web structure reflects environmental constraints and the inefficiency of energy transfers among trophic levels food web Set of cross-connecting food chains Types of Food Chains Food webs include two types of interconnecting food chains: grazing food chain Energy transferred from producers to herbivores (grazers) detrital food chain Energy transferred directly from producers to detritivores (worms or insects) Major food chain in land ecosystems Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4, p. 712 Detritivores and decomposers (nematodes, annelids, saprobic insects, protists, fungi, bacteria) purple saxifrage This is just part of the buffet of primary producers. Parasitic consumers feed at more than one trophic level. lemming Major parts of the buffet of primary consumers (herbivores) flea ermine snowy owl gyrfalcon A sampling of carnivores that feed on herbivores and one another arctic fox arctic wolf human (Inuk) grasses, sedges arctic willow mosquito Second Trophic Level Higher Trophic Levels vole arctic hare First Trophic Level Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.1, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.2, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.3, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.4, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.5, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.6, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.7, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.8, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.9, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.10, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.11, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.12, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.13, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4.14, p. 712 Arctic Food Web Fig. 42.4, p. 712 lemming Major parts of the buffet of primary consumers (herbivores) Second Trophic Level vole arctic hare Stepped Art ermine snowy owl gyrfalcon A sampling of carnivores that feed on herbivores and one another arctic fox arctic wolf human (Inuk) Higher Trophic Levels purple saxifrage This is just part of the buffet of primary producers. grasses, sedges arctic willow First Trophic Level Detritivores and decomposers (nematodes, annelids, saprobic insects, protists, fungi, bacteria) Parasitic consumers feed at more than one trophic level. flea mosquito Arctic Food Web ANIMATION: Food webs To play movie you must be in Slide Show Mode PC Users: Please wait for content to load, then click to play Mac Users: CLICK HERE Trophic Interactions in Ecosystems Understanding links in food webs helps ecologists predict how ecosystems respond to change Computer models show that all species in an ecosystem are closely linked by trophic interaction Even in large communities with many species, 95% of species are within three links of one another A Land Food Web ANIMATION: Rainforest food web To play movie you must be in Slide Show Mode PC Users: Please wait for content to load, then click to play Mac Users: CLICK HERE BBC Video: Seed Banks Helping to Save Our Fragile Ecosystem BBC Video: The Vanishing Honeybee’s Impact on Our Food Supply BBC Video: What is the Environmental Cost for Your Food? 42.5 Ecological Pyramids Ecological pyramid diagrams illustrate the inefficiency of transfers between trophic levels A biomass pyramid shows amounts of organic material in bodies of organisms at each trophic level at a specific time An energy pyramid shows energy flow through each trophic level in a given interval Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Fig. 42.6, p. 713 Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Fig. 42.6a, p. 713 A Biomass pyramid (grams per square meter) 809 detritivores (crayfish) and decomposers (bacteria) top carnivores (gar and bass) 1.5 11 37 5 carnivores (smaller fishes, invertebrates) herbivores (plant-eating fishes, invertebrates, turtles) producers (algae and aquatic plants) Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Fig. 42.6a, p. 713 detritivores (crayfish) and decomposers (bacteria) 5 A Biomass pyramid (grams per square meter) 809 producers (algae and aquatic plants) 11 carnivores (smaller fishes, invertebrates) top carnivores (gar and bass) 1.5 37 herbivores (plant-eating fishes, invertebrates, turtles) Stepped Art Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Fig. 42.6b, p. 713 Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Fig. 42.6b, p. 713 detritivores + decomposers = 5,060 21 carnivores 3,368 383 top carnivores 20,810 producers herbivores B Energy flow pyramid (kilocalories per square meter per year) Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Fig. 42.6b, p. 713 detritivores + decomposers = 5,060 20,810 producers B Energy flow pyramid (kilocalories per square meter per year) 21 top carnivores carnivores 383 3,368 herbivores Stepped Art Florida Aquatic Ecosystem Food and Energy Feeding a population of meat-eaters requires far greater crop production than sustaining a population of vegetarians A person who eats a plant food gets most of the calories in that food When plant food is used to grow livestock, only a small percentage of the plant’s calories ends up in meat Key Concepts Organization of Ecosystems A one-way flow of energy and the cycling of raw materials among species maintain an ecosystem Nutrients and energy are transferred in a stepwise fashion through food chains that interconnect as complex food webs ANIMATION: Energy flow at Silver Springs To play movie you must be in Slide Show Mode PC Users: Please wait for content to load, then click to play Mac Users: CLICK HERE 42.6 Biogeochemical Cycles Elements essential to life move between a community and its environment in a biogeochemical cycle biogeochemical cycle A nutrient moves between environmental reservoirs and in and out of food webs Chemical and geologic processes move elements to, from, and among environmental reservoirs (rocks, sediments, water, atmosphere) Biogeochemical Cycles Fig. 42.7, p. 714 Nonliving environmental reservoirs Seawater and fresh water Atmosphere Rocks and sediments Living organisms Biogeochemical Cycles Key Concepts Biogeochemical Cycles In a biogeochemical cycle, a nutrient moves relatively slowly among its environmental reservoirs The reservoirs may include air, water, and rocks Nutrients moves more quickly into, through, and out of food webs",1.932668924331665],["Without the producer, all organisms in that food chain would have to find another producer, or they would die. For instance, pandas are an endangered species because they only… eat bamboo shoots. When they cannot find enough bamboo shoots, they are not able to successfully switch to another plant for food. The producers (plants) make the food. All other organisms consume the food, either directly by eating plants, or indirectly by eating other animals. Without the producer you do not have food, and therefore you do not have a food chain.",1.9070672988891602],["Energy begins with the sun. It helps make the grass grow. The grass is a producer because it provides food for many animals. The grasshopper is a consumer and eats the grass. The snake consumes (eats) the grasshopper and is then eaten by the hawk. When the hawk dies, his body is broken down into nutrients (food) by fungi which is a decomposer. This provides nutrients for the grass. The food chain is a cycle of energy.",1.8991917371749878],["The decomposers break down dead matter (plant and animal) and return nutrients to the soil which helps the producers grow.",1.8819317817687988],["Food chain is defined as the series of organisms which are responsible for production of food, energy and their passage. There are two types of food chains, Grazing food chain and Detritus food chain. A food chain consist of producers, consumers and decomposers. The main difference between grazing food chain and detritus is, grazing food chain starts with green plants which are actually the producers. On the other hand, detritus food chain starts with dead organic matter which is eaten away by animals and then these animals are ultimately eaten away by other animals.",1.857566475868225],["The environment is full of different animals with different needs.  Students should learn early how these organisms are grouped.    Every organism needs to find food, which is the basis of the food chain (single chain) and food web (many chains).   In food webs there are many layers.  There are decomposers who make areas ready for producers to grow.  Decomposers can use their eating habits to produce heat (bacteria, actinomycetes) that further break down organic debris that helps other organisms like fungi to adsorb nutrients.",1.8430041074752808],["The organisms in a food chain occupy different niches. Plants are producers, because they can make their own food from the energy of the sun. Animals are consumers, because they can only get their food by eating other organisms. The species at the top of a food chain that is not eaten by anything else is known as an apex consumer. Decomposers are a special type of consumer that breaks down dead organisms and returns those nutrients into the ecosystem for producers to use.",1.8355636596679688],["When producers and consumers die, bacteria and other microorganisms in the soil feed on them. These bacteria and other microorganisms are called decomposers . The decomposers break down chemicals in dead organisms and return important nutrients to the environment. Plants then use these nutrients in the soil and water to make food and grow. In this way, plants and animals are dependent on one another and on their environment for survival.",1.8276078701019287],["There is no \"waste\" in nature. Every plant or animal that dies is decomposed and returned to the soil Detritivores are consumers that eat dead organisms and waste material. They break down, or decompose, dead plant and animal material, returning the nutrients to the soil where they are available again for plant growth. Without detritivores, producers would soon run out of the minerals and nutrients that they need to make their food. Detritivores include some large animals, such as ravens; however, the most important detritivores are invertebrates (such as insects), fungi (such as mushrooms), and microscopic organisms (such as bacteria).",1.813117504119873],["The series of organisms of an ecosystem through which the food and energy present in it and  passes with each member is called food chain. A food chain consists of producers (green plants), consumers (animals and man) and decomposers (micro organisms). Basically there are two types of food chains: grazing food chain and detritus food chain.",1.812498688697815],["Producers in the food chain usually refer to green plants since they convert inorganic nutrients into organic food.",1.8086276054382324],["Producers in the food chain usually refer to green plants since they convert inorganic nutrients into organic food.",1.8086276054382324],["All organisms, dead or alive, are potential food sources for other organisms. A caterpillar eats a leaf, a robin eats the caterpillar, a hawk eats the robin. Eventually, the tree and the hawk also die and are consumed by decomposers. Organisms in an ecological community are related to each other through their dependence on other organisms for food. In a food chain a producer is eaten by a herbivore that is in turn eaten by a carnivore. Eventually, the carnivore dies and is eaten by a decomposer. For example, in a lake, phytoplankton are eaten by zooplankton and zooplankton are eaten by small fish. The small fish are eaten by large fish. The large fish eventually die and decompose. Nothing goes to waste. Food chains are channels for the oneway flow of solar energy captured by photosynthesis through the living components of ecosystems. Food chains are also pathways for the recycling of nutrients from producers, through herbivores, carnivores, omnivores, and decomposers, finally returning to the producers. The perfectly linear relations represented by food chains are almost never found in natural ecosystems. Although all organisms have somewhat specialized diets, most can eat a variety of different foods. Thus, each trophic level appears as part of several different interconnected food chains. These food chains combine into highly complex food webs. As with food chains, a food web's source of energy is the sun. The solar energy is harvested by producers such as green plants or algae. These producers are known as autotrophs or photosynthesizing autotrophs. Almost all other organisms obtain their energy, directly or indirectly, from the sun. The exceptions are the communities found around deep ocean thermal vents, which are supported by various bacteria that convert heat energy into stored chemical energy. These bacteria are known as chemotrophs or chemosynthetic autotrophs. Autotrophs are always found at the first trophic level. In an ecosystem this trophic level may include monerans, protists, and several different phyla of plants. They can all be placed at the first trophic level because they all have the same source of energy, and the entire food web depends on the energy harvested by them. For example, in a grazing food web, a herbivore eats living plant tissue and is eaten in turn by an array of carnivores and omnivores. Herbivores and the carnivores that prey on them are known as heterotrophs. In contrast, a detrivore (also a heterotroph) harvests energy from dead organic material and provides energy for a separate food chain. Each step in a food web or food chain involves a transfer of matter and energy (in the form of chemical bonds stored in food) from organism to organism. Thus food webs are energy webs because the relationships represented by connections in the web represent the flow of energy from a group of organisms at one trophic level to another group of organisms at a different level. Because energy is lost (as waste heat) at each step, food chains rarely involve more than four or five steps or trophic levels. At each level the organisms waste much energy in the form of heat generated by normal activity. Only a fraction is stored as food or used for growth. Only about 10 percent of the food entering a link is available for the next organism in the chain. After about five links, there is insufficient energy to support a population of organisms (other than decomposers). For example, in the food chain starting with diatoms and ending with killer whales, only about 0.01 percent of the initial energy stored by the diatoms is delivered to the killer whales. Energy flow through a food web depends greatly on the nature of the producers at the first trophic level. These are usually photosynthetic plants, phytoplankton, or algae. In forest ecosystems, trees are the largest and most abundant organism. They determine the physical structure of the ecosystem, and they can be eaten directly by small or even very large animals. However, much of the matter and energy harvested by the trees goes to build a supporting structure. These supporting structures are composed of cellulose and other wood fibers that are poor sources of energy (although they may be good sources of valuable minerals and other nutrients). In contrast, grasses do not invest much energy in supporting structures, so more energy is available per kilogram of plant material present to the grazers that obtain energy from plants. Consequently, all of the aboveground parts of the grass plants are eaten by herbivores. Energy spreads out through the food web, from the lowest trophic level to the highest. At the \"top of the food chain,\" large carnivores harvest the remaining energy. However, all things eventually die, no matter where they are in the food web, and the dead organic matter accumulates in the soil, lake bottom, or forest floor. This detritus becomes the basis for a completely different ecosystem, the detritus food web. Detritus feeders and decomposers harvest solar energy from the detritus by breaking down the organic material into simpler organic compounds and inorganic compounds. By this process, the matter is recycled and made available for reuse by plants. The detritus food web is vitally important to all ecosystems on Earth. Without it, dead organic matter would accumulate and bury everything. Humans are omnivores. They can operate on several trophic levels, eating plants, insects, mammals, birds, fish, mollusks, and many other organisms. Humans can also shorten the food chain when resources are scarce. In areas of the world where the population may be straining resources, people commonly increase the total food supply by eliminating one or more steps in the food chain. For example, to obtain more energy humans can switch from eating herbivores that obtain their energy from cereal grains to eating the cereal grains themselves. The food web does not tell us everything there is to know about the complex biological communities called ecosystems. Not all relationships are equally important in these dynamic, evolving communities. Food webs contain both strong and weak links. Weak links can often be broken with little impact on the community. On the other hand, some species have a disproportionately large effect on the community in which they occur. Called key-stone species, they help to maintain diversity by controlling populations of species that would otherwise come to dominate the community. Or they may provide critical resources for a wide range of species. For example, in the intertidal communities of the Northwest Pacific coast of North America, the starfish Pisaster ochraceus feeds on the small mussel Mytilus californius. Experiments have shown that when the starfish is artificially removed, the population of mussels explodes, soon covering all available space. Other species are crowded out. The interaction between Pisaster and Mytilus helps to maintain the species diversity of these intertidal communities. Research has shown that ecological communities with complex feeding relationships have greater long-term stability and are less affected by external stresses. This suggests an evolutionary basis for the diverse and complex ecological relationships found in many communities of organisms. However, humans often violate this sound ecological principle in order to increase agricultural productivity by creating artificial ecosystems that contain only one plant, such as corn. These systems are called monocultures. While greater agricultural productivity is possible with monoculture crops, they are very unstable ecosystems. Disease, drought, or a new insect pest can easily destroy an entire year's harvest. see also Biomass; Feeding; Feeding Strategies; Trophic Level. Elliot Richmond Curtis, Helena, and N. Sue Barnes. Biology, 5th ed. New York: Worth, 1989. Miller G. Tyler, Jr. Living in the Environment, 6th ed. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth, 1990. Purves, William K., and Gordon H. Orians. Life: The Science of Biology. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 1987.",1.7767270803451538],["All organisms, dead or alive, are potential food sources for other organisms. A caterpillar eats a leaf, a robin eats the caterpillar, a hawk eats the robin. Eventually, the tree and the hawk also die and are consumed by decomposers. Organisms in an ecological community are related to each other through their dependence on other organisms for food. In a food chain a producer is eaten by a herbivore that is in turn eaten by a carnivore. Eventually, the carnivore dies and is eaten by a decomposer. For example, in a lake, phytoplankton are eaten by zooplankton and zooplankton are eaten by small fish. The small fish are eaten by large fish. The large fish eventually die and decompose. Nothing goes to waste. Food chains are channels for the oneway flow of solar energy captured by photosynthesis through the living components of ecosystems. Food chains are also pathways for the recycling of nutrients from producers, through herbivores, carnivores, omnivores, and decomposers, finally returning to the producers. The perfectly linear relations represented by food chains are almost never found in natural ecosystems. Although all organisms have somewhat specialized diets, most can eat a variety of different foods. Thus, each trophic level appears as part of several different interconnected food chains. These food chains combine into highly complex food webs. As with food chains, a food web's source of energy is the sun. The solar energy is harvested by producers such as green plants or algae. These producers are known as autotrophs or photosynthesizing autotrophs. Almost all other organisms obtain their energy, directly or indirectly, from the sun. The exceptions are the communities found around deep ocean thermal vents, which are supported by various bacteria that convert heat energy into stored chemical energy. These bacteria are known as chemotrophs or chemosynthetic autotrophs. Autotrophs are always found at the first trophic level. In an ecosystem this trophic level may include monerans, protists, and several different phyla of plants. They can all be placed at the first trophic level because they all have the same source of energy, and the entire food web depends on the energy harvested by them. For example, in a grazing food web, a herbivore eats living plant tissue and is eaten in turn by an array of carnivores and omnivores. Herbivores and the carnivores that prey on them are known as heterotrophs. In contrast, a detrivore (also a heterotroph) harvests energy from dead organic material and provides energy for a separate food chain. Each step in a food web or food chain involves a transfer of matter and energy (in the form of chemical bonds stored in food) from organism to organism. Thus food webs are energy webs because the relationships represented by connections in the web represent the flow of energy from a group of organisms at one trophic level to another group of organisms at a different level. Because energy is lost (as waste heat) at each step, food chains rarely involve more than four or five steps or trophic levels. At each level the organisms waste much energy in the form of heat generated by normal activity. Only a fraction is stored as food or used for growth. Only about 10 percent of the food entering a link is available for the next organism in the chain. After about five links, there is insufficient energy to support a population of organisms (other than decomposers). For example, in the food chain starting with diatoms and ending with killer whales, only about 0.01 percent of the initial energy stored by the diatoms is delivered to the killer whales. Energy flow through a food web depends greatly on the nature of the producers at the first trophic level. These are usually photosynthetic plants, phytoplankton, or algae. In forest ecosystems, trees are the largest and most abundant organism. They determine the physical structure of the ecosystem, and they can be eaten directly by small or even very large animals. However, much of the matter and energy harvested by the trees goes to build a supporting structure. These supporting structures are composed of cellulose and other wood fibers that are poor sources of energy (although they may be good sources of valuable minerals and other nutrients). In contrast, grasses do not invest much energy in supporting structures, so more energy is available per kilogram of plant material present to the grazers that obtain energy from plants. Consequently, all of the aboveground parts of the grass plants are eaten by herbivores. Energy spreads out through the food web, from the lowest trophic level to the highest. At the \"top of the food chain,\" large carnivores harvest the remaining energy. However, all things eventually die, no matter where they are in the food web, and the dead organic matter accumulates in the soil, lake bottom, or forest floor. This detritus becomes the basis for a completely different ecosystem, the detritus food web. Detritus feeders and decomposers harvest solar energy from the detritus by breaking down the organic material into simpler organic compounds and inorganic compounds. By this process, the matter is recycled and made available for reuse by plants. The detritus food web is vitally important to all ecosystems on Earth. Without it, dead organic matter would accumulate and bury everything. Humans are omnivores. They can operate on several trophic levels, eating plants, insects, mammals, birds, fish, mollusks, and many other organisms. Humans can also shorten the food chain when resources are scarce. In areas of the world where the population may be straining resources, people commonly increase the total food supply by eliminating one or more steps in the food chain. For example, to obtain more energy humans can switch from eating herbivores that obtain their energy from cereal grains to eating the cereal grains themselves. The food web does not tell us everything there is to know about the complex biological communities called ecosystems. Not all relationships are equally important in these dynamic, evolving communities. Food webs contain both strong and weak links. Weak links can often be broken with little impact on the community. On the other hand, some species have a disproportionately large effect on the community in which they occur. Called key-stone species, they help to maintain diversity by controlling populations of species that would otherwise come to dominate the community. Or they may provide critical resources for a wide range of species. For example, in the intertidal communities of the Northwest Pacific coast of North America, the starfish Pisaster ochraceus feeds on the small mussel Mytilus californius. Experiments have shown that when the starfish is artificially removed, the population of mussels explodes, soon covering all available space. Other species are crowded out. The interaction between Pisaster and Mytilus helps to maintain the species diversity of these intertidal communities. Research has shown that ecological communities with complex feeding relationships have greater long-term stability and are less affected by external stresses. This suggests an evolutionary basis for the diverse and complex ecological relationships found in many communities of organisms. However, humans often violate this sound ecological principle in order to increase agricultural productivity by creating artificial ecosystems that contain only one plant, such as corn. These systems are called monocultures. While greater agricultural productivity is possible with monoculture crops, they are very unstable ecosystems. Disease, drought, or a new insect pest can easily destroy an entire year's harvest. see also Biomass; Feeding; Feeding Strategies; Trophic Level. Elliot Richmond Curtis, Helena, and N. Sue Barnes. Biology, 5th ed. New York: Worth, 1989. Miller G. Tyler, Jr. Living in the Environment, 6th ed. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth, 1990. Purves, William K., and Gordon H. Orians. Life: The Science of Biology. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 1987.",1.7767270803451538],["A producer is an organism that makes food. These are your plants. They produce sugars and food for the consumers. The plants contain the most energy. A consumer is an …organism that consumes other organisms for energy and food. There are three types of consumers. These are the herbivores (animals that eat only plants), the carnivore (animals which only eat meat), and the omnivores (animals that eat both plants and animals). A decomposer is an organism that breaks down waste and dead organisms into nutrients for the producers. These can be fungi, animals, bacteria, etc... An ecological niche is the role or function the organisms has in its ecosystem. For example, an owl's niche would be that of a hunter in his ecosystem. I hope this helps a bit. Eric Cook (ericcook29@yahoo.com)",1.7544654607772827],["A producer is an organism that makes food. These are your plants. They produce sugars and food for the consumers. The plants contain the most energy. A consumer is an …organism that consumes other organisms for energy and food. There are three types of consumers. These are the herbivores (animals that eat only plants), the carnivore (animals which only eat meat), and the omnivores (animals that eat both plants and animals). A decomposer is an organism that breaks down waste and dead organisms into nutrients for the producers. These can be fungi, animals, bacteria, etc... An ecological niche is the role or function the organisms has in its ecosystem. For example, an owl's niche would be that of a hunter in his ecosystem. I hope this helps a bit. Eric Cook (ericcook29@yahoo.com)",1.7544654607772827],["Background 1. Many different food chains are embedded in a food web. The term food chain describes the transfer of matter and energy from green plants through a series of animals. Matter and energy are transferred when animals eat plants or eat other animals. A food chain describes a particular linear set of relationships (A eats B eats C, etc.). It is sometimes useful to think of each successive meal in a food chain as the next \"higher\" level (further away from the source which is the producer). Food chains are snapshots in both space and time. The composition of a chain at any given point is determined by what specific organisms individual animals have recently eaten. 2.",1.7273277044296265],["We often boast about how being on top of the food chain, which is silly because we're useless at the top of the food chain. Plants which are at the bottom of the food chain an…d play the most important role, producing food. Plants are producers in food chains/webs. Plants use the sun's energy and water and nutrients in the soil to create the food which sustains all life. Hoped this helped. p.s. this is one of your readers thanks this really helped :)",1.7011433839797974],["We often boast about how being on top of the food chain, which is silly because we're useless at the top of the food chain. Plants which are at the bottom of the food chain an…d play the most important role, producing food. Plants are producers in food chains/webs. Plants use the sun's energy and water and nutrients in the soil to create the food which sustains all life. Hoped this helped. p.s. this is one of your readers thanks this really helped :)",1.7011433839797974],["We often boast about how being on top of the food chain, which is silly because we're useless at the top of the food chain. Plants which are at the bottom of the food chain an…d play the most important role, producing food. Plants are producers in food chains/webs. Plants use the sun's energy and water and nutrients in the soil to create the food which sustains all life. Hoped this helped. p.s. this is one of your readers thanks this really helped :)",1.7011433839797974],["We often boast about how being on top of the food chain, which is silly because we're useless at the top of the food chain. Plants which are at the bottom of the food chain an…d play the most important role, producing food. Plants are producers in food chains/webs. Plants use the sun's energy and water and nutrients in the soil to create the food which sustains all life. Hoped this helped. p.s. this is one of your readers thanks this really helped :)",1.7011433839797974],["We often boast about how being on top of the food chain, which is silly because we're useless at the top of the food chain. Plants which are at the bottom of the food chain an…d play the most important role, producing food. Plants are producers in food chains/webs. Plants use the sun's energy and water and nutrients in the soil to create the food which sustains all life. Hoped this helped. p.s. this is one of your readers thanks this really helped :)",1.7011433839797974],["We often boast about how being on top of the food chain, which is silly because we're useless at the top of the food chain. Plants which are at the bottom of the food chain an…d play the most important role, producing food. Plants are producers in food chains/webs. Plants use the sun's energy and water and nutrients in the soil to create the food which sustains all life. Hoped this helped. p.s. this is one of your readers thanks this really helped :)",1.7011433839797974],["We often boast about how being on top of the food chain, which is silly because we're useless at the top of the food chain. Plants which are at the bottom of the food chain an…d play the most important role, producing food. Plants are producers in food chains/webs. Plants use the sun's energy and water and nutrients in the soil to create the food which sustains all life. Hoped this helped. p.s. this is one of your readers thanks this really helped :)",1.7011433839797974],["We often boast about how being on top of the food chain, which is silly because we're useless at the top of the food chain. Plants which are at the bottom of the food chain an…d play the most important role, producing food. Plants are producers in food chains/webs. Plants use the sun's energy and water and nutrients in the soil to create the food which sustains all life. Hoped this helped. p.s. this is one of your readers thanks this really helped :)",1.7011433839797974],["We often boast about how being on top of the food chain, which is silly because we're useless at the top of the food chain. Plants which are at the bottom of the food chain and play the most important role, producing food. <br /><br /> Plants are producers in food chains/webs. <br /> Plants use the sun's energy and water and nutrients in the soil to create the food which sustains all life. <br /><br /> Hoped this helped. p.s. this is one of your readers thanks<br /> this really helped :)",1.7011433839797974],["We often boast about how being on top of the food chain, which is silly because we're useless at the top of the food chain. Plants which are at the bottom of the food chain an…d play the most important role, producing food. Plants are producers in food chains/webs. Plants use the sun's energy and water and nutrients in the soil to create the food which sustains all life. Hoped this helped. p.s. this is one of your readers thanks this really helped :)",1.7011433839797974],["We often boast about how being on top of the food chain, which is silly because we're useless at the top of the food chain. Plants which are at the bottom of the food chain an…d play the most important role, producing food. Plants are producers in food chains/webs. Plants use the sun's energy and water and nutrients in the soil to create the food which sustains all life. Hoped this helped. p.s. this is one of your readers thanks this really helped :)",1.7011433839797974],["Food Fight - 5th Grade Standard 4-5 LS2C: Plants and animals are related in food webs with producers (plants that make their own food), consumers (animals that eat producers and/or other animals), and decomposers (primarily bacteria and fungi) that break down wastes and dead organisms, and return nutrients to the soil",1.6841408014297485],["Food Fight - 5th Grade Standard 4-5 LS2C: Plants and animals are related in food webs with producers (plants that make their own food), consumers (animals that eat producers and/or other animals), and decomposers (primarily bacteria and fungi) that break down wastes and dead organisms, and return nutrients to the soil",1.6841408014297485],["The Producers, Consumers, Decomposers Game- 5th Grade Standard - 4-5 LS2C Plants and animals are related in food webs with producers (plants that make their own food), consumers (animals that eat producers and/or other animals), and decomposers (primarily bacteria and fungi) that break down wastes and dead organisms, and return nutrients to the soil",1.6825554370880127],["The Producers, Consumers, Decomposers Game- 5th Grade Standard - 4-5 LS2C Plants and animals are related in food webs with producers (plants that make their own food), consumers (animals that eat producers and/or other animals), and decomposers (primarily bacteria and fungi) that break down wastes and dead organisms, and return nutrients to the soil",1.6825554370880127],["A food chain is a transfer of energy from one organism to another. It generally begins with the sun's energy being changed into chemical energy by green plants or producers. Consumers eat (get energy from) the producers. Finally, decomposers break down dead or waste matter and return nutrients to be used again by the producers. Arrows in a food chain",1.6816195249557495],["Producers make organic nutrients which are transferred to consumers when the plants are eaten.",1.6775623559951782],["Producers make organic nutrients which are transferred to consumers when the plants are eaten.",1.6775623559951782],["An ecosystem occurs when living animals, plants, and microbes form a community which includes producers and consumers.  Producers are those organisms that make their own food using sunlight, nutrients, and water.  Producers are autotrophs or organisms that utilize the sunlight and chlorophyll within the plant to produce energy for the plant to grow. Heterotrophs are those organisms on the food pyramid that eat producers.",1.6732831001281738],["6 Word Bank 13. ecosystem – the living and nonliving things that are in an area. 14. food chain – a model that shows the path (trasfer) of nrg and nutrients in an ecosystem. 15. producer- organisms in the plant kingdom that use the sun’s nrg to make their own food. 16. consumer – any animal that eats plants or other animals. 4",1.646116018295288],["In addition to producers and consumers, there are also decomposers. These organisms, such as bacteria and fungi, feed on decaying matter. They help the food chain by speeding up the decaying process that releases minerals back into the soil to be absorbed by plants as nutrients .",1.6387803554534912],["Many food chains make up a food web. Predators at the end of the food chain die and are eaten by decomposers, which provide soil for producers. Whether it is a food chain or food web, plants and animals need each other. They depend on each other for survival.",1.6333261728286743],["Many food chains make up a food web. Predators at the end of the food chain die and are eaten by decomposers, which provide soil for producers. Whether it is a food chain or food web, plants and animals need each other. They depend on each other for survival.",1.6333261728286743],["It is referring to the consumers in the food chain, such as animals,fungi and many bacteria. More scientifically, it's the life form that uses organic carbon for growth. This contrasts with autotrophs, which are the producers, mainly plants, in the food chain.",1.62982976436615],["Producer: organism on the food chain that can produce its own energy and nutrients.",1.625978708267212],["Producer: organism on the food chain that can produce its own energy and nutrients.",1.625978708267212],["primary producers - those organisms that produce the initial nutrients in a food chain;",1.625978708267212],["to produce glucose, a basic component of the food chain.  They use the glucose to produce carbohydrates, proteins and fats required for reproduction and growth, drawing nourishment from soil nutrients.  As producers, plants create organic matter that serves, in effect, as storehouses of solar energy and as a food source for animalsthe consumers. ",1.6180118322372437],["Decomposers (or saprotrophs) are heterotrophic organisms that obtain their energy from deceased organisms. They, themselves, are organisms (often fungi, Earthworms or bacteria) that break down organic materials to gain nutrients and energy. Decomposition is a natural process that will happen by default, but decomposers accelerate the process. The role that decomposers perform in an ecosystem is extremely important. Without them, organic matter would be piled up on our grounds from past years. In addition, some plants would not receive the required nutrients and might die. When an organism dies, it leaves behind nutrients that are locked tightly together. A scavenger may eat the carcass, but its feces still contains a considerable amount of unused energy and nutrients. Decomposers will later induce further breakdown. This last step releases raw nutrients (such as nitrogen, phosphorus, and magnesium) in a form usable to plants, which quickly incorporate the chemicals into their own cells. This process greatly increases the nutrient-load of an ecosystem, in turn allowing for greater biodiversity. An example of decomposers is the numerous fungi on the right; they break down the dead tree converting its remaining stored energy to free energy. Although, Decomposers are generally located on the bottom of ecosystem diagrams such as food chains, food webs, and energy pyramids; the decomposers in the biosphere are crucial to the environment. By breaking down dead material, they provide some of the required nutrients that other organisms need to survive. Types of Decomposers Fungi Earthworms Plants are producers Animals are consumers",1.6170068979263306],["The first trophic level of the food chain is the producers so lets take the sweet grasses as the producers, this is then eaten by the next trophic level which would be the impala (which are considered the \"staple diet\" of many predators) the primary consumers, these in turn are eaten by lion, ( the secondary consumers) the lion may die of old age, or become too ill to defend itself in which case it will then be eaten by hyena(tertiary consumer). The hyena may in turn die and will then be fed on by vultures and finally be broken down to simpler organic matter by detritus feeders such as maggots and finally to inorganic matter(future plant nutrients) by decomposers, and then it starts again when the grass absorbs the nutrients... A tree standing on the bank of a river fixes sun energy through photosynthesis. The leaves fall in the water and are eaten by insects in the water. The insects are eaten by fish, the fish are eaten by bigger fish and the big fish is eaten by a crocodile (the crocodile is on top of the food chain). The transfer of food and energy from the plant source (producers) through a series of organisms (consumers) with repeated eating and being eaten is referred to as a food chain.",1.603269338607788],["The producers of grazing food chain are green plants. Theses green plants are eaten by herbivorous animals which are further eaten up by carnivorous animals. That show the food chain continues. The source of energy for this food chain is sun and this food chain is capable of adding the energy generated from this food chain, in the ecosystem. Energy which flows in this food chain is of less quantity. Producers occupy the trophic level in this food chain. So precisely, the energy in a grazing web moves from green plants to herbivorous to carnivorous or omnivorous. Theses carnivorous or omnivorous tend to prey on herbivorous. This food chain consist of all the macroscopic organisms.",1.599840521812439],["The sun is the energy source. The grass is the producer. Mice eat the grass, snakes eat the mice, and hawks eat the snakes. When those plants an animals die, they are broken down by decomposers. The nutrients returned to the soil can be used by the producers.",1.5944428443908691],["Although the species involved vary greatly, most tropical rainforest food chains follow the same general pattern of producers, primary consumers, secondary consumers and decomposers. These food chains all begin with green plants that manufacture their own food through the process of photosynthesis. Called producers, these green plants serve as food for primary consumers, also known as herbivores. Carnivores, or secondary consumers, eat the primary consumers. Organisms called decomposers consume the secondary consumers after they die, which recycles the nutrients back into the soil, where plants can use them to begin the cycle again.",1.594359278678894],["The producer, or plant, is eaten by an animal that is a herbivore, which is an animal that eats only plants, or an omnivore, which is an animal that eats plants and other animals. On the food chain, the animal that eats the producer is called a consumer. This is because it consumes the producer.",1.587758183479309],["Food chain: A list of organisms starting with a producer (usually a plant), followed by the animal that eats the plant, then an animal that eats that animal and so on to the \"top carnivore\" an animal that eats others but is not killed and eaten by any other. Though everything eventually gets \"eaten\" by decomposers when it dies by some other cause. The arrows always point to the animal that does the eating and from the organism that gets eaten, more specifically they indicate the flow of energy.",1.5811002254486084],["A pond's ecosystem food chain has three basic trophic levels. The first trophic level represents the producer and autotrophs, such as phytoplankton and plants. Producers prepare their own food with the energy emitted from the sun through a process known as photosynthesis. The second trophic level consists of herbivores, such as insects, crustaceans, and invertebrates that inhabit the pond and consume the plants. The third trophic level comprises of carnivores, such as various sizes of fish, which feed on both the plants and herbivores atop the first and second trophic levels. Saprotrophic organisms, also known as decomposers located on the bottom of the food chain, help decompose dead organic matter, which further breaks down into carbon dioxide and essential nutrients, such as nitrogen, phosphorus, and magnesium. These nutrients supply the necessary life force for the first trophic level organisms to produce food for the second trophic organisms, which results in the perpetual flow of energy in the pond's ecosystem.",1.5806658267974854],["Energy that is not used in an ecosystem is usually turned into heat. Energy and nutrients are passed through the food chain, when one organism eats another organism. Any energy left in a dead animal is consumed by decomposers. The low amount of energy that transfers between trophic levels makes decomposers more important than producers because of the energy flow. Decomposers process large amounts of organic material and put nutrients to the ecosystem in inorganic formula, which is then taken up again by primary producers. Energy is not recycled during decomposition, but is released.Most of the food we eat comes from simple food chains. The food chains begin with the producers, organisms such as autotrophs (for example green plants that make their own food). Through photosynthesis producers convert solar energy to chemical energy. Of all the energy a plant gets from the sun it only converts 3 per cent to chemical energy. The amount of chemical energy changes depending on the species of the plant and where it is located. Plants are eaten by many organisms that can only obtain their energy by feeding on other organisms. These are called heterotrophs. They include consumers of any organism, in any way: plants, animals, microbes, even dead tissue. Heterotrophs also are called consumers. The herbivores feed on the autotrophs and change the energy from the plant into energy that they can use. Carnivores obviously feed off the herbivores and then carnivores finally feed off carnivores. In each case, energy is passed on from one Trophic level to the next trophic level and each time some energy is gone as heat into the ecosystem. This is because that organism must use some energy that they have from other organisms so they can survive. The top consumers of a food chain will be the organism with the less amount of energy. On average about 10 per cent of energy production at one trophic level is passed on to the next level.",1.564819097518921],["“Food chain,” or \"Food Web\" as you may know, is the term biological scientists use to describe the sequence of living organisms through which energy passes as it fuels the life of a community of plants and animals.  A food chain always begins with the plants, called “producers.”  It always ends with the animals, called “consumers.” ",1.5600680112838745],["The sequence of the transfer of food energy from one organism to another in an ecological community. A food chain begins with a producer, usually a green plant or alga that creates its own food through photosynthesis. In the typical predatory food chain, producers are eaten by primary consumers (herbivores) which are eaten by secondary consumers (carnivores), some of which may in turn be eaten by tertiary consumers (the top carnivore in the chain). ◇ Many species of animals in an ecological community feed on both plants and animals and thus play multiple roles in the chain. Parasites feed on living tissues, generally without killing their hosts, and may themselves be hosts to smaller parasites. In addition, organisms that die without being eaten are consumed by detritivores, some of which serve as prey for other consumers. The complex system of interrelated food chains in an environment is known as a food web. See more at trophic level .",1.5579909086227417],["Draw an arrow from producer to consumer on the board. Tell the children that when the plant eater is eaten by another animal, the energy moves from that consumer to another consumer. Write consumer 2 on the board and draw an arrow from consumer to consumer 2. Ask: What do you think happens to the energy when consumer 2 dies? (Accept all answers.) Tell the students that plants and animals called decomposers break down the dead body and recycle its nutrients into the soil or water so plants can use it to grow and make more food. Write decomposer on the board. Draw an arrow from consumer 2 to decomposer and an arrow from decomposer back to producer, forming a cycle. Tell the students that this cycle is how energy moves through a food chain. Ask: What is a food chain? (plants and animals linked together because each one is food for the next)",1.5548208951950073],["Biomagnification occurs when organisms at the bottom of the food chain concentrate the material above its concentration in the surrounding soil or water. Producers, as we saw earlier, take in inorganic nutrients from their surroundings. Since a lack of these nutrients can limit the growth of the producer, producers will go to great lengths to obtain the nutrients. They will spend considerable energy to pump them into their bodies. They will even take up more than they need immediately and store it, since they can't be \"sure\" of when the nutrient will be available again (of course, plants don't think about such things, but, as it turns out, those plants, which, for whatever reason, tended to concentrate inorganic nutrients have done better over the years). The problem comes up when a pollutant, such as DDT or mercury, is present in the environment. Chemically, these pollutants resemble essential inorganic nutrients and are brought into the producer's body and stored \"by mistake\". This is the first step in biomagnification; the pollutant is at a higher concentration inside the producer than it is in the environment.",1.5364106893539429],["Biomagnification occurs when organisms at the bottom of the food chain concentrate the material above its concentration in the surrounding soil or water. Producers, as we saw earlier, take in inorganic nutrients from their surroundings. Since a lack of these nutrients can limit the growth of the producer, producers will go to great lengths to obtain the nutrients. They will spend considerable energy to pump them into their bodies. They will even take up more than they need immediately and store it, since they can't be \"sure\" of when the nutrient will be available again (of course, plants don't think about such things, but, as it turns out, those plants, which, for whatever reason, tended to concentrate inorganic nutrients have done better over the years). The problem comes up when a pollutant, such as DDT or mercury, is present in the environment. Chemically, these pollutants resemble essential inorganic nutrients and are brought into the producer's body and stored \"by mistake\". This first step in biomagnification is called bioaccumulation; the pollutant is at a higher concentration inside the producer than it is in the environment.",1.5364106893539429],["Producers: An organism that produces food for animals. Mainly Plants.",1.5346887111663818],["Biological communities within lakes may be organised conceptually into food chains and food web. The simplest illustration of the organisation of the organisms within an ecosystem is the ecological pyramid (food chain). The broad base of primary producers mainly supports overlying layers of herbivores, planktivores and less number of carnivores (predators). Food chains that allow a diversity of species to survive are divided into trophic levels, with plants providing the first trophic level, as they are the primary producers of most food chains. In almost all fresh water ecosystems, animals will be present, and form part of the many grazing food chains in the area. Other organisms leach the energy from dead organic matter forming detritus food chains. Such relationships allow the free flow of organic energy to be passed along from species to species, and provide an environment where food is available for them to survive. Food webs (Figs. 12 to 14) may be described in terms of both energy and nutrient (carbon, nitrogen or phosphorous) flows. The process typically begins with sunlight driven photosynthesis and respiration. Green plants capture energy from sunlight and convert it into living organic plant tissue. Lake photosynthesis includes algae and macrophytes, which together are the primary producers as they create organic material required by other organisms for nutrients and energy. Other fish feed on primary consumers and are called secondary consumers. They constitute the third trophic level. Still larger consumers such as large fish and man are tertiary consumers (fourth trophic level). Hence, energy and nutrients originating from the photosynthetic production of biomass and energy cascade through the food web. Respiration (the oxidation of organic material) releases energy that was originally captured from sunlight through photosynthesis. Decomposers are sinks for plant and animal wastes, but also recycle nutrients for photosynthesis. The amount of dead material in a lake far exceeds the living material. Detritus is the organic fraction of the dead material in a lake and is in the form of small fragments of plants, animals and microorganisms.",1.5261788368225098],["Like all food chains on Earth, a tundra food chain begins with a producer that can create organic molecules from inorganic molecules for chemical energy. One food chain in the alpine tundra of the Rocky Mountains in North America begins with dwarf clover, which uses energy from the sun to make sugars from carbon dioxide and water. A snowshoe hare, an herbivore and the primary consumer in the food chain, eats the clover, obtaining energy and nutrients, and then a lynx, a carnivore and the secondary consumer, eats the hare. Like any consumer in a food chain, however, the lynx receives only part of the energy the rabbit received from foods it consumed in its life, as some of that energy was used up in movement and growth or lost to the atmosphere as heat. When the lynx dies, scavenging ravens pick at the dead flesh, becoming tertiary consumers. Beetles, millipedes and other insects and decomposers, including fungi and bacteria, further break down the dead body to its inorganic nutrients, which can be used by new plants.",1.5132683515548706],["They are the primary producers in the aquatic food chain, converting the basic chemical nutrients in the water and soil into plant matter, which becomes food for all other life.",1.511694073677063],["(pause, then call on several students for responses) GLOSSARY: abiotic factors - nonliving factors, including water, oxygen, light, temperature, soil, and inorganic and organic nutrients autotrophs - organisms that can make all the organic nutrients they need from inorganic compounds biomass - mass of organisms biosphere - the portion of the earth in which living things exist biotic factors - living factors including all the living organisms in the environment and their effects, both direct and indirect, on other living things \ncarnivores - animals that feed only on other animals commensalism - one organism benefits from a symbiotic relationship and the other is not affected consumers - heterotrophs that must obtain nutrients from other organisms decomposers - break down the remains of plants and animals, releasing substances that can be used by other members of the ecosystem ecosystem - includes a community and its physical environment food chain - a series of organisms through which food energy is passed food web - food chains interconnected at various points forming a food web herbivores - animals that feed only on plants heterotrophs - organisms that cannot make their own nutrients latitude - distance north or south of the equator omnivores - animals that feed an both plants and animals mutualism - both organisms benefit from their association parasitism - one organism benefits from a symbiotic relationship while the other is harmed population - all individuals of a particular species within a certain area predators - attach and kill their prey and feed on their bodies producers - autotrophs that can produce their own nutrients from inorganic compounds pyramid of energy - amount of available energy in an ecosystem saprophytes - organisms that obtain nutrients by breaking down remains of dead plants and animal scavengers - feed on dead animals they find symbiotic relationships - two organisms living in close association and benefit at least one of them RESOURCES: FILMS/VIDEO TAPES: Cycles in Nature: Food Webs Ecological Cycles Succession: Ways Ecosystems Change -three sound filmstrips from National Geographic This is the 3960th time this file has been accessed since 11/16/96.",1.5097544193267822],["A food chain consists of producers (green plants), consumers (animals and man) and decomposers (micro organisms).",1.5063214302062988],["Decomposers in the desert ecosystem recycle the nutrients in the dead organisms back into the soil. When a plant or animal dies, the nutrients and energy are entrapped in their bodies. Decomposers feed on these carcasses, and leave behind unused energy and nutrients, which are present in both unconsumed portions like bones, feathes or fur in case of animals and  in  wood and other indigestable materials in case of plants. Decomposers convert all organic matter into carbon dioxide and nutrients in a form usable to plants. The raw nutrients are  mainly composed of nitrogen, phosphorus, and magnesium. Plant cells incorporate these chemicals into their cells during photosynthesis. Therefore the nutrients are resupplied and form primary energy production. These nutrients are useful and support the growth of producers . Soil bacteria, fungus, worms, and  mushrooms are some of the decomposers of the desert ecosystem.",1.5059645175933838],["In the food web, energy is transferred from one living organism through another in the form of food. The Pandas food wed is divided into three sections, primary producers, primary consumers, secondary consumers and decomposers- all part of the food chain. Photosynthesis is the beginnings of the food web it produces the energy to help plants grow, which are the primary producers. The Panda comes under the secondary consumer, as it uses photosynthesis to produce its food – Bamboo. Cubs become a prey to other animals such as Leopards and tigers, which are known as the primary consumer. However adults intimidate other predators because of their great size. Decomposers such as worms, mushrooms, flies and maggots break down dead plants and animals.",1.5056190490722656],["Green plants in a food chain are called producers.  They are the only part of a food chain that can transfer the sun’s energy into food.  The process by which plants do this is called photosynthesis.  Producers are usually the first part of the food chain and the animals that eat only plants are called herbivores.  These herbivores are usually the second part of the food chain and they are called first level consumers.  The final members of a food chain are either carnivores or meat eaters, and omnivores, which eat both plants and meat.  The next levels on the food chain are considered  second level consumer and then third level consumers, and so on.  As the food chain gets longer the level of energy that is passed on to each animal gets smaller and smaller.  There are many more organisms required at lower levels on the food chain because it takes more of them to supply the needed energy to animals higher on the food chain.",1.4959166049957275],["A food chain is sequence of plants, herbivores and carnivores, through which energy and materials move within an ecosystem. Food chains are usually short and not more than three or four links. They usually consist of a producer, a consumer and a predator, with the predator being the top of the food chain. The top of the desert food chain does eventually die though, and is returned to the bottom of the chain as nutrients by decomposes.The energy from the sun is used by the plants, and then the plants feed small animals. The coyote eats these small animals. After the coyote dies its remains go back into the soil, and then the cycle starts all over again.That is where the coyote sits in the food chain.Having the ability to eat anything it can chew, the coyote is a cunning hunter and an opportunistic scavenger. The coyote can run up to 40 mph, and combine its abilities with one or two others when they are running down their prey. Coyotes can eat insects, arachnids, rabbits, deer, big horn sheep, chickens, and sheep. They also may eat household pets such as cats and dogs.Old predators of the coyote were the grizzly and black bears; mountain lions; and wolves, but because their populations have gone down, they aren't as big a threat anymore.Depredation, killing coyotes because they are harmful, has become common in ranching areas. Ranchers fear for their wildlife. Also, since the coyote's fur has become so valuable, man became their main predator. They are scared of us, because we are the dominant species. Also, another reason is that we can eat almost anything we want, including them.",1.4883161783218384],["A food chain is sequence of plants, herbivores and carnivores, through which energy and materials move within an ecosystem. Food chains are usually short and not more than three or four links. They usually consist of a producer, a consumer and a predator, with the predator being the top of the food chain. The top of the desert food chain does eventually die though, and is returned to the bottom of the chain as nutrients by decomposes.The energy from the sun is used by the plants, and then the plants feed small animals. The coyote eats these small animals. After the coyote dies its remains go back into the soil, and then the cycle starts all over again.That is where the coyote sits in the food chain.Having the ability to eat anything it can chew, the coyote is a cunning hunter and an opportunistic scavenger. The coyote can run up to 40 mph, and combine its abilities with one or two others when they are running down their prey. Coyotes can eat insects, arachnids, rabbits, deer, big horn sheep, chickens, and sheep. They also may eat household pets such as cats and dogs.Old predators of the coyote were the grizzly and black bears; mountain lions; and wolves, but because their populations have gone down, they aren't as big a threat anymore.Depredation, killing coyotes because they are harmful, has become common in ranching areas. Ranchers fear for their wildlife. Also, since the coyote's fur has become so valuable, man became their main predator. They are scared of us, because we are the dominant species. Also, another reason is that we can eat almost anything we want, including them.",1.4883161783218384],["At the base of the food chain lies the primary producers . Primary producers are principally green plants and certain bacteria. They convert solar energy into organic energy. Above the primary producers are the consumers who ingest live plants or the prey of others. Decomposers , such as, bacteria, molds, and fungi make use of energy stored in already dead plant and animal tissues. Fungi, like mushrooms, absorb nutrients from the organisms by secreting enzymes to break up the chemical compounds that make up dead plants and animals.",1.4858767986297607],["FOOD CHAINS: Food chains illustrate the flow of energy from plant to animal and from animal to animal by the way of eating and being eaten relationship. Plants are the producers as they can manufacturetheir own food in the form of carbohydrates during photosynthesis.Consumers devouron plants and other organisms. Each such step in a food chain is called a trophic level.",1.480830192565918],["The food chain of a producer is the sun, the primary consumer, the secondary consumer and the decomposer. The producer uses the sun and nutrients in the soil to make food, and animals that consume it eventually die and fertilize the soil.",1.478509545326233],["Species are related to each other through the role they play in the food chain as producers, consumers, and decomposers. Producers are photosynthesizing plants, consumers are herbivorous or carnivorous animals, and decomposers are organisms (such as bacteria) that break down organic material into minerals, which are eventually used by producers. There are more producers than consumers. The total amount of living matter in any place is called the biomass. When the biomass of plants increases it is measured as the primary productivity: the biomass produced by consumers and decomposers is measured as the secondary productivity.",1.4641869068145752],["Each food chain starts with a primary producer or autotroph , an organism, such as a plant, which is able to manufacture its own food.",1.462978482246399],["Producers - organism which make their own food (plants) Photosynthesis - beginning of every food chain.",1.462978482246399],["Producers - organism which make their own food (plants) Photosynthesis - beginning of every food chain.",1.462978482246399],["Each food chain starts with a primary producer or autotroph, an organism, such as a plant, which is able to manufacture its own food.",1.462978482246399],["55 Producers Consumers Decomposers Any green plant, which uses sunlight to make food for energy. Producers are the first organisms listed on a food chain, understanding that the Sun provides the initial energy for the plants. An organism (usually an animal) that obtains its energy by eating other organisms (plants and/or animals). An organism (for examples, worms, mold, or mushrooms) that obtains its energy by feeding on and breaking down dead plants and animals. *often not listed in a food chain even though they are always the final link. Food chains have three types of organisms. The role of each can be described by how it obtains its energy.",1.4628710746765137],["Other critical components of a food web include producers, or plants, which use photosynthesis to transform energy from the sun into sugars that consumers can use. Also important are decomposers, organisms that feed on and break down animal and plant waste and dead organisms. Decomposers, also known as detrivores, make use of energy stored in dead plant and animal tissue. In the process, they release nutrients stored in the plants and animals they break down, cycling the nutrients back into the ecosystem for plants and animals to use.",1.4619238376617432],["Explain the term food chain to your child/children using the background information. Tell them that all living organisms in a food chain can be classified as a producer, a consumer, or a decomposer. Producers consist mainly of plants. Most consumers are herbivorous, omnivorous, and carnivorous animals. Decomposers, mainly bacteria and fungi, break down dead plants and animals to make nutrients in the soil.",1.4610599279403687],["Explain the term food chain using the background information. Tell students that all living organisms in a food chain can be classified as a producer, a consumer, or a decomposer. Producers consist mainly of plants. Most consumers are herbivorous, omnivorous, and carnivorous animals. Decomposers, mainly bacteria and fungi, break down dead plants and animals to make nutrients in the soil.",1.4610599279403687],["17 Fungi and the Environment Harmful Fungi Decompose the food human would eat (competition for our food) Causes diseases in animals and plants Produce toxins (chemicals) that can kill organisms** Helpful Fungi Decomposers- return nutrients to the soil for producers Human food: mushrooms, yeast for bread and brewing, cheese flavor (bleu) Medicines: antibiotics Penicillium and other drugs. Industry: ethanol production- gasoline substitute/additive",1.459100604057312],["17 Fungi and the Environment Harmful Fungi Decompose the food human would eat (competition for our food) Causes diseases in animals and plants Produce toxins (chemicals) that can kill organisms** Helpful Fungi Decomposers- return nutrients to the soil for producers Human food: mushrooms, yeast for bread and brewing, cheese flavor (bleu) Medicines: antibiotics Penicillium and other drugs.",1.459100604057312],["In a food chain, which organisms are the producers and which are the consumers?",1.4577279090881348],["Grazing food chain starts with green plants which are the producers. The green  plants or producers are grazed by herbivorous animals which are further eaten by carnivores.",1.4559905529022217],["  Phytoplankton are the primary producers of the oceans, forming the base of complex pelagic marine food webs. They are autotrophic organisms that possess chlorophyll, enabling them to use sunlight to convert inorganic material to organic material through the process of photosynthesis. Like all plant cells, phytoplankton have three major requirements for growth - namely sunlight, carbon dioxide, and nutrients in the form of nitrates and phosphates. They obtain their nutrients directly from the nutrients dissolved in sea water and utilize the energy from sunlight to produce carbohydrates. Thus, as primary producers, phytoplankton are limited to the upper euphotic zone of the ocean that receives light from the sun. Secondary production occurs when phytoplankton are fed on by herbivorous zooplankton who convert the plant material into animal tissue in the next step up the food chain, and tertiary production occurs when carnivorous zooplankton, or other planktivores, such as fish, whale sharks or baleen whales, feed on zooplankton.",1.4539408683776855]]